One of the problems with weight loss
goals is saying you need to cut calories
in order to get there. Now, I'm not
saying calories don't matter. They are
relevant, but not the most relevant. And
I'm going to talk about evidence to
support that.
>> If someone is listening at home now and
they have the goal of losing some
weight, they want to be in a better
physique, be more healthy. Is this
conversation going to help them
accomplish those goals?
>> I'll make sure that they get what they
need.
>> Dr. Benjamin Bickman is one of the
world's leading metabolic and fat cell
scientists. And now he's returned to
expose some of the myths surrounding
weight loss
>> and the surprising impact that one
particular hormone has on our weight,
brain, and mental health.
>> As a metabolic scientist, I wouldn't
want someone to think there is only one
way to lose weight. However, I think
this is the most practical and simplest
strategy, a ketogenic diet. A huge
reason is that when you cut carbs,
insulin comes down. And insulin as a
hormone is the one metabolic hormone to
rule them all. Insulin will tell every
single cell of the body what it needs to
do with energy. And insulin is so
determined to store energy that it is
directing calories to be stored in
tissues like fat or in the liver
>> to make you fat.
>> Yeah. But there's more. Ketones are the
brain's preferred fuel. It can control
anxiety, improve depression. It can help
with attention. In fact, the benefits of
ketones are so extensive that companies
are finding ways so you can drink
ketones.
>> And I have a bunch of different
exogenous ketone products here, a
variety of different brands and a bunch
of other things here on the table. So,
what the hell is this?
>> If someone is interested in a good,
smart way of losing weight, try that.
>> This is definitely a prop. It tastes
like bleach.
>> I'm so sorry. Oh my god.
>> So, for 2026 to be the year where I
finally get a grip of my health, and I
asked you to make the perfect plan, what
would you prescribe?
>> So, first of all,
I see messages all the time in the
comments section that some of you didn't
realize you didn't subscribe. So, if you
could do me a favor and double check if
you're a subscriber to this channel,
that would be tremendously appreciated.
It's the simple, it's the free thing
that anybody that watches this show
frequently can do to help us here to
keep everything going in this show in
the trajectory it's on. So, please do
double check if you've subscribed and uh
thank you so much because in a strange
way, you are you're part of our history
and you're on this journey with us and I
appreciate you for that. So, yeah, thank
you.
Dr. Benjamin Bickman,
at this time of year, the audience that
are listening right now are thinking a
lot about health and dietary changes
that they can make to make 2026 the best
year of their life to finally be able to
kick that habit. And one of the things
that's front of mind, I think, for all
of my listeners is their relationship
with sugar, with carbs,
>> right? And I guess the second order
things that some people might know
something about like insulin resistance
and all these kinds of subjects. At this
particular moment in the year, if you
had the ear of millions of people as
they're coming into 2026, what is the
most important thing that you would say
to them?
>> Yeah, that's a great question. What a
way to um to get things started. In
fact, I appreciate you even framing the
conversation as if I had the ear because
you've given me the ear of millions of
people. So, I'm going to take it
seriously. The way you frame the
question is really relevant because
within North America, you see a a
pattern, a rhythm to both weight gain
and even insulin resistance as it is
quantified throughout the year where in
the winter months people gain more
weight and are more insulin resistant.
Almost like the hibernating bear, which
becomes demonstrably more insulin
resistant as it gets into hibernation.
We non-hibernating mammals actually see
an echo of the same thing, albeit more
subtly. So, it matters now where
physiologically we're more inclined to
suffer from the consequences of bad
dietary decisions.
And of course, with all the holidays,
we're more likely to be making those bad
dietary decisions. So, my advice would
be to structure your indulgences as
smartly as you can. you know that you're
going to be faced with foods that are
delicious and dare I say addictive.
Don't rely on your own intuition uh to
guide you through eating that know that
your temptation to indulge is going to
be in some instances perhaps greater
than you can control. So, structure your
indulgences. Give yourself a distinct
period of time where you know you're
going to embib in these refined starches
and sugars. And then, if necessary,
recruit help. Have a family member, have
a loved one join you in your plan, and
you tell them, "I don't want to gain the
same weight I gained last year. I don't
want to amplify the consequences of
insulin resistance like I did last year.
Can you please be my my watchman and
help me keep track where today is my day
of indulgence or two days and then on
that Monday remind me please be my
helper um to get back on track. Among
the many problems with the modern diet
is the constant carbohydrate
consumption. It is the one macronutrient
that we have the hardest time
controlling and I would say it's the one
macronutrient that has the most
disastrous consequences in the form in
which we consume it. Now, of course,
carbohydrates is a broad class of food.
Some are just fine and some are not. Of
course, we more focus on the ones that
are not fine. So, my advice would be
structure your indulgences, be mindful
of what you're doing in that you are not
doing yourselves any favor. uh and then
recruit outside help because you will
not be able to rely on your own
intuition to pull you out of what might
become the sort of carbind induced coma.
>> Um I did ask thousands of the listeners
what dietary changes they had planned
for 2026 and what they cared about most.
Funnily keto came up number one then
cutting sugar then weight loss then
fasting more protein whole foods low
carb and calorie control. So this is
going to be a bit of a road map for me.
I'm thrilled to hear that order. Like
when you put out the histogram and
you're looking at the most common
responses, the fact that calorie number
was at the bottom actually kind of
thrills me because this reflects that
the tide is turning that over the past
decades, 60 plus years, the singular
piece of advice when it came to weight
loss and metabolic health was eat less,
exercise more, which is a purely
thermodynamic or a a calorie centric
paradigm. just stating nothing else
matters other than the energy you're
putting in and the energy you're putting
out. We can't possibly account for all
of the energy in the complexity of the
human body. You can have humans eat two
meals that are identical in calorie
number. So purely isocaloric
and there is something called the
thermic effect of food. So when we eat
right now you and I haven't eaten, we're
in a fasted state. Our metabolic rate is
say humming along here. If we were to go
get lunch and eat something in the hours
following just the very act of digesting
we have turned up the metabolic engine
and metabolic rate would go up a little
bit.
>> Metabolic rate meaning
>> meaning the total amount of energy the
body is is expending. In fact metabolism
to I'll come back to this thought in
just a second. As a metabolic scientist
people don't even understand the word
metabolism. Metabolism is
underwhelmingly perhaps nothing more but
nothing less than the sum of every
chemical reaction happening in our
bodies. It's just everything that is
keeping us alive, that is keeping our
neurons firing, my my my muscles moving
as I'm animating on the my hands.
Everything we're doing is metabolism.
And so after we eat, metabolism goes up
a little bit. Again, that's called the
thermic effect of food. And if you give
people two isocaloric meals, so exact
same number of calories. That's what
isocaloric means. same amount of protein
and yet the they differ in their
composition of macronutrients with fats
and and carbs. So the meal that is lower
carb and higher fat, those individuals
will have a much higher metabolic rate
for hours afterwards than the group that
is eating the high carb, low-fat version
of that same caloric meal. And that's
because insulin insulin as a hormone is
the one metabolic hormone to rule them
all. It will determine what the body
does with energy at every single cell.
This is a principle even many very
educated clinicians don't understand.
They think that insulin only controls
blood glucose. That's just the most
obvious thing that it does because we
can prick a finger and measure it or
slap something on our arm and measure
the glucose. Insulin will tell every
single cell of the body from brain cells
to bone cells, liver cells to lung
cells, and everyone in between what it
needs to do with energy. And insulin is
so determined to store energy that it
will slow the metabolic engine of the
body down in order to store more. And so
all of this is my long- winded way of of
saying how thrilled I am that this is an
audience that is shrugging off the old
ideas of a calorie ccentric model of
obesity. Because all of these people,
everyone's interested in losing weight
or maintaining weight, which I admire.
That's a good goal. The size of our fat
cells matters tremendously. So that's a
good goal to want to shrink our fat
cells and be healthier. The fact that
they didn't put controlling calories as
number one and indeed put it at the end
suggests that the word is getting around
that more I would say better more sound
metabolic science is starting to seep
through society where they're more
interested in controlling their
macronutrients.
In other words, their carbs and their
fats than they are controlling their
calories.
>> My brother called you, didn't he?
>> He did.
>> My older brother.
>> Yeah. What did he say?
>> Yeah, he's darling. Well, we we had some
wonderful conversations. Um, he was
interested as a dad, a middle-aged dad,
in in fact indeed checking a lot of the
boxes you just mentioned, which is I
want to be a healthy dad. I want to live
a long, healthy life. One of the
problems with weight loss goals is they
look at the goal. They look at the
weight where they want to get to.
They're looking down the down the road
and saying, "This is where I want to
get, and so I need to cut calories in
order to get there." So there are two
there are two variables that come into
play when it comes to losing weight. And
I've already said said this and I'll
state it again just to be clear. It's a
matter of shrinking fat cells. That's
what happens when someone's losing fat
mass. It's not that you're losing fat
cells. Indeed, you don't want to. That's
a topic for another time. But
liposuction is a perfect example where
you are losing fat mass and yet no
health marker gets better. None. Even
though you've lost, you could go in and
suck out fat cells and you'd say, "I
lost 20 pounds of pure fat. I'm now
going to go to my doctor and get my
blood test and I'm going to be so much
healthier." And yet nothing is
different. If they were diabetic,
they're just as diabetic. So if
someone's looking at their New Year's
goals, and when I spoke with your
brother, it was an echo of this
conversation in a way. I said, "All
right, you need to shrink your fat
cells." Most people only look at the
calorie control. The problem with
calorie control is that we've seen what
it looks like when you only focus on
calorie deprivation. And that is in in a
word hunger. And there was this within
the US there's been this game show over
the years called the greatest loser.
These people one lose a fantastic amount
of weight and yet you never see them
again because they gain it all back. So,
if your weight loss strategy is based on
cutting calories without addressing
insulin, which is the other of the two
variables, then you're going to be
hungry. Dr. David Lewig at Harvard, a
friend and colleague and collaborator,
he published a report looking at the
same kind of dynamic that I outlined a
moment ago, two isocaloric or equal
calorie meals. And he found that when
they ate the meal that spiked insulin,
the what he called I think he called it
total energy availability. So they
measured every calorie molecule in the
blood. So ketones, you know, BHB, they
measured uh lactate, they measured fats,
they measured glucose, and they found
that when with the insulin spiking meal,
the total energy availability went down.
>> What does that mean?
>> Yeah. So in other words, with the
increase in insulin, as I noted a moment
ago, insulin is so determined to store
energy that it is directing calories to
go from the blood to be stored in
tissues like fat or in the liver
>> to make you fat.
>> Yeah, indeed it would. But the problem
is the brain doesn't have that storage
capacity. You know, you could have big
fat cells with lots of energy. You could
have a liver with tons of fat and
glycogen, which is a stored form of
glucose, ready to go, but the brain
doesn't have a big storage reservoir,
and yet it has a high metabolic rate.
And so the brain is constantly relying
on the energy in the blood that it can
use, especially glucose and ketones, the
two primary fuels for the brain. And so
when you spike insulin, you lower your
glucose and you stop your liver from
making ketones. So the two main brain
fuels have gone down,
>> which is why you get brain fog.
>> It certainly lead to some mild cognitive
impairment, but it would also drive
hunger. And so another group found that
if you ate an isocoric breakfast, one
low carb, one high carb, the group that
was on the high carb breakfast was much
hungrier much sooner.
>> And so this
>> Okay. So let me just
>> Yeah. Yeah. The way I understand that is
>> because I've had a meal that's high in
sugar, let's say, or carbs.
>> Y
>> insulin has come out, it's grabbed all
of the energy from my blood.
>> Yep. That you just ate.
>> That I just ate. It's stored it all
away. And because my brain is getting
its energy from the blood as well, my
brain is being energy deprived in some
way. And so my brain is going
>> within an hour or two, you are hungry.
>> Yes. Even though your fat cells might be
bigger than they've ever been. So that's
the sort of disconnect that you end up
having when you're spiking insulin so
frequently, you may have hundreds of
thousands or even millions of calories
stored on your body in your fat cells
primarily. And yet the brain is saying,
"I'm hungry." We shouldn't be hungry. We
have so much energy that we can use, but
only if we can access it. And this is
where ketones come in. And I hate to
change the topic, but if if a person has
fat and they can burn that fat, then
they're making ketones. And ketones are
the brain's preferred fuel. Let's just
state that with an exclamation mark. And
so if the brain is getting ketones or
even if it has access to plenty of
glucose, it senses, hey, there's no
energy deprivation. We're fine. We don't
need to eat. And that's what these
studies find. And so back to the
conversation with your brother, rather
than focusing on calorie number, focus
on the other variable, which is insulin.
Because if you decide that you're going
to start your fat cell shrinking
journey, so with the first step, you
could say, well, my first step is going
to be cutting calories. But if you
haven't addressed your high insulin,
which you have to have if you've gained
weight, it is impossible.
In fact, this is worth a tangent for
just a moment because I can state this
so emphatically.
You could have all the hormones in the
human body and tens of thousands of
calories coming in every day. And if you
simply remove one single hormone, it is
impossible for that person to get fat.
Totally and completely impossible. Now,
I am a scientist enough that I like to
avoid hyperbolic language. I don't want
to state anything in the extreme. And
yet, in this case, I actually can. I can
revel in all of the um the power of this
declaration which is you simply wipe out
a person's insulin, it is completely
impossible for them to get fat. In fact,
this phenomenon is so real and so
learned if not already known that you
have people with type 1 diabetes.
Imagine the temptation. Let's say you're
a young woman who faces more pressure
than her than her young men
counterparts. She just gets diagnosed
with type 1 diabetes and she has become
used to eating whatever she wants and
being very very skinny. That is one of
the cardinal signs of type 1 diabetes.
The person is just losing weight. In
fact, the early the ancients thought
that as they were making so much urine
because another feature of type 1
diabetes in in an untreated state is
they urinate a lot. That's what the word
diabetes means. It means polyura or a
lot of urine for formation. They thought
that their flesh, their fat, their
substance was turning into liquid and
excreting from their bodies. And so the
person, this this imagine this young
woman, she's say 13 years old. She is
super super skinny, which she likes
because there's such a pressure to be
skinny and she can also at the same time
eat whatever she wants. And then but of
course she feels miserable and indeed it
will kill her. So, she gets diagnosed
with type 1 diabetes and she's put on
insulin therapy and two things happen.
She starts eating less and getting fat.
In fact, they gain people will gain so
much weight that if they're in the
hospital for a few days, they can't
leave the hospital with the same clothes
they came in. That's not to say they're
leaving and then and they're obese, but
they can have easily gained 10 pounds,
15 pounds of fat. So this phenomenon is
known and you have people with type 1
diabetes who abuse that fact and will
deliberately underdose their insulin. So
they can eat whatever they want. They
could go to a Thanksgiving or Christmas
dinner and indulge in all the sweets and
just simply underdose their insulin and
be as skinny as they want to be. Now
there's disastrous metabolic
consequences, but it's just a testament
to the power of insulin. So to finally
answer the question, my advice when I
was speaking with your brother and
anyone listening, don't have your first
step on your fat cell shrinking journey
be low calorie because you will find
that in short order, hunger will win.
And so you'll be right back where you
started. Let your first step be I'm
going to lower my insulin because as I
lower my insulin, I don't have to worry
about hunger first of all. Because if
you're just focusing on lowering
insulin, you can tell the person, and
indeed I am, eat as much protein and fat
as you want because they have little to
no effect on your insulin. So, anytime
you're hungry, eat something with
protein and fat. Um, and then
if you're not hungry, don't eat. But
anytime you're hungry, you don't have
to, it's not deprivation. It's not
hunger, but the low calorie approach is
hunger. You're going to be hungry. So
lower your insulin by controlling your
carbohydrates and and basically whole
fruits and vegetables. Enjoy them. And
this is part of the conversation I had
with your brother.
>> And he called you and told you that he
had had positive results following
watching this conversation and following
your advice.
>> Yeah. I think he said he'd effortlessly
lost 15 or so pounds uh just without
even really worrying about it because
you're not having that gnawing hunger.
>> Yeah. He um he didn't tell me he was
reaching out to you. So, I actually only
found out that he had spoken to you when
he like messaged me one day on WhatsApp
and was like,
>> "I've been chatting to Dr. Benjamin
Bitcoin." I was like, "How did you get
his email? Like, how did you get his
phone number?" So, he must have reached
out.
>> He knows people.
>> Okay. Right. Okay. He found a way.
>> Yeah. He knows people.
>> No, but he looks radically different. I
have to say he he's dropped a ton of
weight and um looks fantastic.
>> Well, he was already handsome, so I can
only imagine what he looks like now.
>> That's the genetic component. Um but but
when I look back at the conversation we
had
the top comment on our previous
conversation is someone saying I was
morbidly obese 68 days ago. I was 280
lbs and pre-diabetic. In these 68 days I
cut out sugar and flour entirely. And I
reduced my calories to about 1,800 a
day. And I'm pleased to know that my
high protein, highfat, low carb diet is
the right path and my blood sugar is now
normal.
>> Yeah. Remarkable. I I don't mean to ever
come across as saying that there's only
one way to lose weight and that anyone
listening who uh is interested in weight
loss would say, "Well, gosh, it looks
like I have to eat a lot of meat and
eggs." And yet, you don't. As much as I
am an a defender of that view, uh I
wouldn't want someone to think there is
only one way to lose weight because we
could both think of people who adopted a
purely plant-based diet and lost weight.
Now, I have some significant concerns
with that diet long term, but even
still, they could say, "Well, I'm eating
100% carbohydrates essentially, and I've
lost weight." I'm not saying calories
don't matter. They do. But it also makes
it a hard long-term strategy. And so if
someone can lower their insulin, I' I'd
alluded to a metabolic advantage and
I'll just revisit that briefly. I'd
mentioned already one of these things,
which is when when insulin is down, the
metabolic rate goes up. And my lab
published a report um finding that part
of that is through the production of
ketones. That when ketones move through
the bloodstream and come to our fat
cells, they will increase our metabolic
rate in our fat tissue by three times.
And we did this in humans. We studied
fat cells in a petri dish. We studied
fat tissue from animal models. And then
we studied fat tissue from humans where
we actually were pulling biopsies of
belly fat from people that were in
ketosis or not. And when they were in
ketosis, their metabolic rate in their
fat tissue was three times higher than
when they weren't than the group that
was not in ketosis. So this suggests
that there's an advantage here that
comes from lowering insulin. So as
insulin comes down, the person will find
that they're just burning weight more
easily. And then one other part of that
is when you're making ketones,
every ketone has a caloric value roughly
similar to that of glucose. And so what
happens now in ketosis or when ketones
are up, you start wasting those ketones
from your body that you're breathing
ketones out or you're urinating ketones
out. And those are calories that are
just coming from your body that would
have had to be burned through exercise
or stored in fat tissue. And yet in the
in a low insulin state, that is so
antithetical to fat storage that the
body just starts literally wasting
energy. So every breath they're taking
out when they're breathing out ketones,
those are calories just coming out of
their body.
>> So let's start then with ketones because
on the list of things that my audience
said they planned to change for the new
year, keto
>> Mhm.
>> and ketones was top of that list for
someone that's, you know, never heard
the term before.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, please give me context on on what
exactly it is, but also how it relates
to living a healthy, happy 2026.
>> Right. Right. Well, I am I'm a great
defender of ketones. I think that they
have been one of the more uh
misunderstood molecules in the body for
decades and it is thrilling for me to
see an explosion of research in this
realm looking at the effects of of
ketones in the body. So a ketone is a
molecule that the body will make. Um
many tissues can make it but if you're
measuring it in your blood it's coming
from the liver and ketones are a product
of fat burning. So when insulin is low,
which it must be for the body to make
ketones, that's why it's ketogenesis or
the genesis or the creation of ketones,
to be in a ketogenic state, you must
have low insulin. That's required. Um,
when insulin goes down, you have two
important things happening. First,
starting at the fat cell, then going to
the liver. When insulin is down, the fat
cell is breaking apart its
triglycerides, which is the molecule
that the fat cell stores as fat. So
that's called lipolysis. Lipolysis,
lipid breaking or fat breaking. So you
have in a low insulin state, the fat
cells breaking down as fats. Now those
fats are coming to the liver.
>> So in a low insulin state, you mean if I
was fasting
>> fasting or low carb?
>> Okay.
>> Yep.
>> So the minute I'm low carb or fasting,
then I start producing these things
called ketones.
>> Yeah. Within about 16 hours. So if you
and I went to lunch and we ate a typical
kind of high carb type lunch, a typical
lunch with all kinds of macronutrients
in it, our insulin would go up and then
if we stopped eating then about 16 or so
hours later, we would start making
ketones. That's a long enough period of
time for fat burning to kind of take
over. And so the fat cell is breaking
down its fat. That fat is going to the
liver right here. In fact, so here we
don't have a lot of subcutaneous fat on
this guy here, unfortunately. So on the
outside in the front of the body or
around the middle, we have this fat that
we can pinch and jiggle. That's the
subcutaneous fat. So it would be
surrounding in this model for those
watching, it'd be surrounding the organs
on the outside. That is fat that the
body burns very readily. That fat is
running to the liver in very short
order. So it goes to the liver and now
the liver has some options. The liver is
the I say that the liver is the soccer
mom of nutrient metabolism. It knows
what to do with everything. Whether it's
lactate or glucose or fats or ketones,
the liver can handle all of them. So,
the liver is getting a lot of fat from
fat cells. And it has some options. It
would say, "Well, I can store this fat
or I can burn it." And and how does the
liver decide? Insulin tells it what to
do. And if insulin is down, the liver
cannot store fat. it it has to burn it.
>> So if I'm fasting, if I've been fasting
say for two days for example or I've not
been eating carbs for two days,
>> the liver won't store.
>> It will not. In fact, the liver, it is
so antithetical to fat storage in the
liver that you have human studies where
people have significant fatty liver
disease confirmed through ultrasound
measurements and they can just go on a
ketogenic or a low carb diet for just a
week and if I recall the study
correctly, I think it reduced the liver
fat by like 60%. And compared and which
was significantly more than the high
carb version and so even it was the same
calories. Once again, just further
evidence that calorie number, as much as
I don't calories matter, but just
they're not number one. They they're
they're they they're relevant, but not
as not the most relevant. So, you the
the liver cannot hold on to its fat as
insulin comes down. It must burn it. And
the liver begins within each liver cell,
the liver is burning so much fat that
it's actually it's burning more than it
needs for its own energy. And it's
basically, if you'll allow me to speak a
little silly, the liver begins to say,
"I'm burning more energy than I need. I
wonder how the brain's doing." And the
brain won't burn fat. The brain will
burn ketones. And so the liver starts
creating ketones is as its it's its way
of sharing the energy with the brain. So
a ketone is, to put it very succinctly,
a product of the liver burning a lot of
fat. Anytime you're burning a lot of
fat, you're going to be making ketones.
People have heard of the keto diet. Um,
when you talk about the keto diet,
there's lots of rebuttals.
>> Some people say it's not sustainable.
You can't do it for a long period of
time.
>> How do you respond to arguments against
keto?
>> Yeah, that's that's a great question. I
appreciate the concerns. The the stated
concern that they would say it's not
feasible.
You can say that about any diet. You
really can. And I don't mean to um push
aside people's concerns, but you could
say the same thing about someone going
on a low-fat, lowc calorie diet. That's
not sustainable, and it never is. They
always get off it. And so, anytime a
person is making a dietary change to
improve their metabolic health, every
diet works until you stop doing it. Uh
that might be a maxim that people can
leave with. Um a ketogenic diet because
it's not based on hunger. I think has
the potential to work. But we know there
are people who've done it their whole
lives, right? There are people who from
childhood adopt a ketogenic diet in
order to control their seizures or their
their their epilepsy or people will do
it to control their migraines. Because
if there's one tissue in the body that
thrives in the midst of ketones, it's
the brain. you can almost throw a dart
at a board that lists all of these
chronic brain disorders, whether it's
schizophrenia, whether it's bipolar,
whether it's depression, whether it is
um dementia, like Alzheimer's disease.
Every one of those instances, there's
evidence to show even things like
multiple sclerosis. There's instance
evidence to show improvements in humans
with a ketogenic diet. the brain and to
say that in a different way the central
nervous system loves ketones.
>> I'm just um looking at some of the
people who watched our last conversation
and who have left comments on that
conversation and there's this one chap
here who I'll throw up on the screen
called Shanti. Um he says 35 days of
keto for the first time ever started on
the 2nd of January 2025. It's now the
8th of February and 8 kg or 17.5 lbs
gone. So easy and loving my food
choices. I'm having no more than 20 gram
of carbs per day. I am amazed.
Not felt this good since I was a
teenager. Another 15 kg to go and I know
I'll get there.
>> Wow.
>> That's roughly 37 pounds to go. So
>> that's remarkable.
>> It really really works.
>> Well, it does work. But but I don't mean
to ever, you know, neither you nor I are
going to tell anyone everyone listening
this is the only way to lose weight. But
I think it is the most practical and
simplest because the problem with so
many weight loss strategies is that it
puts you against your own hunger. And
hunger always wins. You have to have a
weight loss journey that doesn't have
hunger being a constant feature. Because
if you're imagining this long walk to
shrinking my fat cells to what this guy
wanted of almost 35 total pounds, I
think is what he's going for. If you're
carrying hunger, it's like it's like a
bag. It's like luggage that you're
dragging along on this journey. The
chains that you're dragging that are
going to make it almost impossible for
you to get there.
>> This sounds almost counterintuitive
because when people hear that you're not
going to have sugar, they assume that
you're therefore going to have loads of
cravings for it. Mhm.
>> But the remarkable thing I discovered
the first time I went on a low carb/
keto diet is I was walking through this
mall in Cape Town where where um I live
sometimes and I saw this concession
stand for like cinnamon rolls.
>> And I thought to myself like I've not
had sugar for, you know, I've not had a
high sugar diet now for a couple of
weeks. I'll just go look at it and see
how I feel. And I walked over and looked
down at it at a food I would absolutely
love and my mouth would water just
thinking about it. I looked down at it
and I had the emotional
urge to buy one was completely gone. And
it's hard to explain.
>> It's hard to explain.
>> Yeah. You you were able to just look at
it and shrug your shoulders.
>> I felt nothing.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And I was and I was really I I found
that really fascinating that I had no
urge, no craving, no desire to buy the
cinnamon roll
>> and it had vanished.
>> Well, this is this is one of the things
where I think the future of as ketone
research in humans continues to evolve.
I there is already evidence showing
profound you can use a ketogenic diet to
help people with eating disorders. This
these are there are published case
studies on this and I think a part of it
is when the brain is so nourished and
consistently nourished
>> by ketones
>> by ketones the brain reaches this new
level of of indifference to what it
knows might be harmful and and that's in
the midst of that answer I have that's
kind of loaded where if you're on a
ketogenic diet the beauty is fuel is
stable ketones are stable even glucose
is stable you're avoiding the massive um
volatility of of glucose. And as much as
so much of of the glucose centric view
is only worried about the high glucose,
high glucose is harmful that it can
induce the glycation of molecules
throughout the body where the glucose is
literally binding things and and
disrupting their function, proteins,
fats. So glucose is harmful, but so too
is the volatility of the glucose where
it's really high, then it's really low,
and then it's really high again. That is
a roller coaster of energy for the brain
where it's you're force-feeding the
brain all this glucose and now you're
depriving it. It's like it's like a form
of abuse on the brain. But when it's a
ketogenic diet, it is stable, consistent
energy. And so it's not surprising to me
that people find they're able to resist
cravings better because the brain is
able to say to the rest of the body,
"No, we don't need that. We're doing
fine. We got energy."
>> What about the heart?
>> Oh my gosh, that's a brilliant question.
So, I would say the brain is number one
tissue that thrives on ketones and I'd
put actually put the heart as number
two. There is a lot of great research. I
would refer people to Gary Lope's work
and others that I just don't know
personally, but I know him. He's at the
University of um Alberta in Edmonton. um
and he has found and others so I'm going
to synthesize their work collectively
that when a person's experiencing heart
failure it's it's a combination of
variables where the heart may not be
able to contract well enough to eject
the blood it has to work a lot harder
for every pump in that case they they
have found that the the heart will shift
its fuel to start relying on ketones to
improve its function but there was a
paper just published this here looking
at a different form of beta
hydroxybutyrate which is the main
ketone. Whenever I've been saying
ketone, I've been thinking of the
molecule beta hydroxybutyrate. When the
liver makes BHB or beta hydroxybutyrate,
it actually comes in two forms that are
mirror opposites of each other in
structure. So the way they're built,
it's referred to as DBHB or LBH. So in
heart failure, the heart muscle itself
like the brain starts relying a lot on
DBHB as its fuel. Then you would say
that begs the question, well what about
the L? This paper that was just found
used a pig heart model which is actually
shockingly close to human anatomy. So
it's a pretty good um corlary here. They
found that with LBH infused into the
cardiovascular system of the pigs,
>> which is ketones,
>> which is a different form of the ketone
that the liver makes. Yeah. So the liver
is making two types of BHB, DBHB and
LBHB.
>> And when they profused the
cardiovascular system with LBH, they
found that the what's called ejection
fraction, so the amount of blood coming
out of the left ventricle, which is the
part of the heart that's beating blood
everywhere. So with LBH, they found that
the heart was able to eject 40% more
blood for every beat. But now you would
say, well, it's just because you're
making the heart work harder. No, it was
not at all an effect of the heart
itself. It was because all of the great
arteries like the aorta, right out of
the left ventricle will come the aorta,
which is the main avenue for moving
blood everywhere. The aorta expanded and
all of the great vessels enlarged so
much that the heart was now able to beat
out 40% more blood with every single
beat. So when it comes to someone with
heart failure, I think they are among
the most they should be among the most
interested in testing out the effects of
ketones. Uh even as a personal note, I
am I tend to be kind of high anxiety,
high performance sort of I'm always
thinking of something. No surprise that
I tend and I don't sleep particularly
great and so no surprise that I
sometimes have higher blood pressure. I
one time measured my blood pressure on a
random I went into my dentist and the
dentist has now started measuring blood
pressure. It was 139
over 90ome and I had never been that
high. I couldn't believe it. I'm such a
healthy bloke. How on earth is my blood
pressure this high? And I thought, well,
I'm kind of sleepd deprived. I've had
maybe a little too much caffeine that
morning or whatever. But it was a
concern. And over the next few days, my
blood pressure continued to be higher
than it had ever been. And of course,
I'm getting old enough that I think
these things start to matter. I took a
shot of as an experiment, seeing this
paper that was had just been published
in 2025. I took a few grams worth of
LBH. I drank it and within about an
hour, my blood pressure was like 110
over 70. So, it had this. Now, that's
anecdotal. It's an N of one. Maybe I
just calmed down enough, but I saw an
almost immediate reduction in my blood
pressure. And it could be because of
what they found, which is that all of
the vessels that the heart is beating
into, they expanded. And so every with
every beat of the heart, the heart was
able to eject more blood. And the and
the the wider a blood vessel gets, of
course, the lower the pressure is. And
so that's that could be the mechanism
that explains in my case why my blood
pressure got fixed so quickly. How did
you drink that?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, there are a few
different ways. As much as we've been
focusing on uh endogenous ketones. So,
I'm pointing to my liver, but here's the
liver. So, when a person is in a
ketogenic state, they're making their
own ketones, we would use the word
endogenous ketogenesis or they're making
ketones in their own body. But it's no
surprise that the benefits of ketones
are getting so extensive that now there
are companies um that are enterprising
individuals that are finding ways to get
into ketosis without having the rigor of
a ketogenic diet. And so you can drink
ketones. And that comes in a few
different forms. Of course, the form I'm
talking about is just straight BHB in in
its two in its two versions. You can get
it in either version, DBHB or LBH.
So, that's just you consuming it in the
way your liver makes it.
>> If you looked in my kitchen cupboard
over there, you'd probably see, frankly,
about 100 different ketone products. Um,
obviously, some of them are the same,
but there's like 100 different units of
ketone products. And here is my ketone
reader, which is where I pick prick my
finger frequently.
>> In fact, you'll be delighted um once you
get one. Nowadays, they make them
attachable.
>> Really?
>> Yeah. So ketones are so easy to measure,
not unlike glucose, that just like
people have continuous glucose monitors
now in Europe, you can get continuous
ketone monitors
>> from where?
>> Next time you're in the UK, get them.
You can't get them here yet. They're not
FDA approved, but there was a company
out of Germany um that sent me one uh
called Sai Bio, Si Bio, and you can just
strap it on and look at your phone and
it's giving you continuous readings.
>> Damn.
>> Yeah, it's very very
>> That is incredible. I'm literally going
to buy that ASAP. Um, but before I get
that, I've been using this little ketone
reader here.
>> Yep.
>> Which I have no affiliation to at all.
Um, and pricking my finger every single
day to see my ketone levels when I'm in
a in a ketogenic state.
>> You talked about exogenous ketones
there. I have a bunch of different
exogenous ketone products here. I know
some people use ketone salts.
>> Yep.
>> I have two different ketone brands here.
>> Yes. Yeah. So, there are there are
different forms. You have two different
forms here. and you mentioned one that
that ought to be described because that
actually is the type of ketone I was
just talking about. So ketone IQ is a
ketone precursor where it's a molecule
called 13b butane dial that will come to
the liver then the liver will metabolize
it um to to a large degree into BHB the
main ketone that we're talking about and
that is the ketone that people want. Um
then the other one, this is an esther.
What's an esther bond is a molecule that
has a a a chemical bond that is broken
when you eat it uh through enzymes. So
you digest that where it's one part BHB,
the straight real ketone, and then it's
one part 13 butane dial, which is the
same precursor, the ketone precursor and
ketone IQ. And so those are two of the
three forms, well maybe four forms. And
then the other two are straight BHB
where it's either a BHB salt where the
BHB molecule is bound to a sodium or a
calcium or a potassium. And you can buy
those in the D or the L form or nowadays
it's the straight acid what's called a
BHB acid where it doesn't have any of
the electrolytes in it where it's you
can get that's what I was referring to a
moment ago when I lowered my blood
pressure. I took the straight a straight
shot of L BHB and you can get that in D
and L forms as well.
>> Okay. So, I've just taken a shot of
Keton IQ.
>> Yeah. So, that's one3 butane dial and
you taste it. Um, right. It has a
particular kind of kick because it's a
it's an alcohol molecule that you know,
you feel it like it it's sort of like
taking a little shot, but your liver
will take that in and then over the next
couple hours it will start converting it
to varying degrees into BHB. And what
I'm going to do is I'm going to quickly
do my blood ketone levels now and we
will see if in 10 minutes time, let's do
10 20 minutes time, there are ketones
flowing in my blood. So I've pricricked
my finger. I've put a little bit of
blood on this little ketone sensor here
and it says that my blood ketone levels
are currently 0.3.
>> Yep.
>> Yeah.
>> So can you describe for me now that I've
just have had a shot of Ketone IQ, which
by the way I am affiliated with. I have
um I'm an investor in the company. Um
but that's why I brought a variety of
different brands. Yeah.
>> Um can you tell me what's going on
inside my body now that I've just had
one shot of that?
>> Yes. Yes. So now your body is taking in
that main molecule of ketone IQ which is
called 13 butane dol and it's going to
get absorbed from your guts into your
blood and then from your guts it's going
to go to your liver and then the liver
will pull in that molecule and rearrange
it into BHB and then and then release
that into the into the blood
>> which is ketones
>> which is key it will turn it into BHB
the ketone. Yep. And now again there are
different forms that you can take
whether it's the straight 13b butane
dial or whether it's an esther
>> and what's happening from there. So it's
now in my blood. What's happening then?
>> Yeah. So now once the BHB is in the
blood it um anytime BHB is in the blood
it is both fuel and a signaling
molecule. And that last part is often
overlooked. We've been over the course
of this discussion talking a lot about
or I've been referring to the fact that
it's a fuel for any any cell with
mitochondria,
which is everything but red blood cells.
Red blood cells are the only cells with
no mitochondria. But every other cell of
the body will take in BHB, the main
ketone, and use it for fuel. Every
single cell of the body, and do so
gladly. the and it's important to
compare the BHB the ketone against
glucose in many of the biggest tissues
of the body like the muscle or the fat
or even the heart glucose can't just
come in it needs an escort if you will
or it needs permission and that's
insulin so there's this regulating step
there's this this checkpoint where
insulin can say all right you can come
in or not because I'm insulin resistant
or there's not enough insulin or
whatever ketones have no such regulation
they just come in if the cell has mito
mitochondria, the ketones going in. So
that's one effect where the ketone is
metabolized as a fuel giving the cell
literal energy. Number two is the fact
that the BHB can bind to the cell and
there are receptors on cells that will
sense the BHB then the BHB will tell it
to do something.
>> The ketone.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So it's it's which is really
really unique where you have something
that is both a calorie source an energy
source and it acts like a hormone where
it tells cells that's the signaling
effect where it tells cells to to do
something like a moment ago I'd
mentioned how LBH is capable of
expanding the great blood vessels in the
body well in that regard it's acting as
a signaling molecule and increasing the
production of nitric oxide which is a
great visodilator. All these guys that
are taking nitric oxide drugs like
Seialis for whether it's erectile
function or nowadays guys are taking it
to have better blood flow and perform in
the gym and have a better workout. Well,
LBHB might be kind of the way forward
where if you can signal something else
but get the same effect without the
consequences or the side effects that
you get from seialis then that might be
one of the strategies and use of LBH in
the future. So, that's been about 5 or
10 minutes and my blood ketone levels
are now at 0.5. Um, and they're
continuing to climb just from one shot
of Keton IQ. Some people ask me about
sex differences in the ketogenic diet or
a low carb diet generally.
>> Some people are concerned that low carb
diets or ketogenic diets are especially
useful for men but might have a
different set of complications for
women. And we did have a female expert
debate on the show where I asked about
the ketogenic diet for women and the
sort of consensus was that it should be
treated differently for women.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I app I remember I I tuned
into that and I respect it tremendously.
I I really appreciate the view that a
lot of these gals have advocated for
which is that women are not just small
men. The differences between male and
female of course are enormous. Um that
doesn't mean there are differences in
everything. So women are very unique
when it comes to hormones. They women
experience a rhythm of hormones that
there is no equivalent in men because of
the the reproductive burden if you will
or responsibility that a woman has where
she will see changes in hormones that
can reach thousands of times differences
like progesterone levels can change by a
thousand times over the course of the
ovarian cycle. Estrogen levels will
change by multiples. men just don't have
that kind of volatility. Those female
sex hormones do influence metabolism,
but then it matters tremendously which
um phase she is in of her ovarian cycle.
So if she is in the the first follicular
phase, which is a low progesterone,
higher estrogen state,
>> what's the first follicular phase?
>> Yeah. So in the in if you look at the
female fertility phase, um it is like a
200piece orchestra. It is so dynamic.
Whereas men's fertility is like a
barberhop quartet. It sounds nice, but
it's very simple. So, in the first phase
leading up, so she's just had her
menration end, now she's starting the
beginning of a new cycle. That first
phase is called the follicular phase,
which is when her ovaries are having
some follicles or a future a little egg
getting bigger. One will end up becoming
the dominant one, but that is creeping
in higher higher levels of estrogen. And
then she will ovulate with at with the
ovulation that what was a follicle in
her ovary now becomes what's called a
yellow body or a corpus ludium. And so
it's called the ludial phase and that is
defined by very high progesterone and
progesterone changes things. So where I
think the conversation in women is very
relevant and fascinating is that in the
first phase in her follicular phase she
is a fat burning machine. You can
measure she will get into ketosis faster
than her male counterpart and she's
burning more fat than her male
counterpart. In fact, this is one of the
few clinical values where there's a male
version and a female version. This isn't
very common. Many of the typical
metabolic type markers, whether it's
glucose or insulin, triglycerides, LDL,
cholesterol, they're the same across the
sexes with the exception of free fatty
acids. So earlier I had mentioned that
when insulin is low the li the fat cell
is breaking down fat. It's breaking down
that fat as free fatty acids. So the
free fatty acids in a woman are about 40
or 50% higher than in a man
>> during that first phase.
>> Yes. Especially during the first phase
and that's because she's burning more
fat and that helps her get into ketosis
faster. So if you this has been shown in
studies take a male and female have them
start a fast she will get into ketosis
faster than him.
Now during during
>> just during that phase or
>> especially during the phase yeah I I
don't know that they compared and
controlled for the ludial phase but it's
worth noting where I think um fasting
and ketogenic diets start to change.
So it'll keep going up. Yeah.
>> So just another reading point8.
>> Yep.
>> Is ketosis considered what.5?
>> Technically, but frankly I actually call
it ketosis at.3. the moment you can
detect it on one of those blood meters
that I'd say you're in ketosis and I
think 0.3 is the lower limit. So 0.5 is
a little bit of an arbitrary cut off but
that is the classic view. Um, so in in
that in that ludal phase with high
progesterone, progesterone is a hunger
hormone. And so if she's trying to do a
fasting protocol during and her cravings
are going to be higher and her uh she's
going to be hungrier. And so that's
where I think the conversation's very
important is that during her ludal phase
after she has ovulated,
it's going to be harder to stick to a
ketogenic diet. And that's where I think
it might be prudent for her to be a
little generous with herself. um where
uh it might get a little more difficult.
Now, however, some of the concern with
women and ketogenic diets is misplaced.
And I would be remiss if I didn't
mention a study that answered this
question very well in with regards to
cortisol. In fact, I'll state this now.
I already chatted with the team. I would
love to see you bring on a scientist in
the UK named Dr. Isabella Cooper. She
has published a series of studies in
women that are fascinating because of
the the intervention that she's done.
She's taken women who had been adhering
to a ketogenic diet as part of their
normal life. Then for 21 days they have
to adopt the typical high carb diet of
the standard UK guidelines similar to
the US about 55% carbohydrate decidedly
not ketogenic for 21 days. So more than
long enough to detect changes and then
they go back to their diet for 21 days
and they have blood tests again. And so
these are healthy women who go from a
ketogenic diet to a high carb diet back
to a ketogenic diet. And when they
looked at cortisol, when Isabella and
her group measured cortisol levels, no
statistically significant change at any
point. There was just noise and no
trend. Some gals had their cortisol go
down. Some had them go up. But as a
group there was it was just a big messy
flat line.
>> And what does that mean?
>> That takes a lot of wind out of the
sales of of people who say that a
ketogenic diet is a unique stress on
women because people want to invoke and
they'll say, "Well, cortisol goes
through the roof and that's sign of a
significant stress." And yet Isabella's
own data show that cortisol levels
aren't different. that there is no
unique cortisol related stress state of
a ketogenic diet. So I think it's
relevant because it just brings a little
nuance to the conversation. Not to say
men and women are not different. They
absolutely are. But I do believe the the
view that a ketogenic diet is uniquely
stressful in in women but not men, I
think is uh overblown. And and again,
I'm relying on Isabella's own data to
support that. So, coming into 2026 and I
want 2026 to be the year where I finally
get a grip of my health, where I finally
become the person that I know deep down
I could be and I desperately do want to
be. And I asked you, Dr. Ben,
>> to make me a plan,
>> the perfect plan, the perfect diet. I
know everyone's different, so we're
gonna have you gonna have to play with
me here a little bit, but
>> the perfect plan for 2026,
>> what would you prescribe as a diet,
lifestyle choices? Okay. And I'm going
to write it down.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So I would um at the risk of
sounding too self-absorbed
uh I this is I'll kind of describe my
own approach as a metabolic scientist
but please everyone listening appreciate
that I will I'm inserting my own
constraints because my approach is kind
of that of a guy who knows a lot but is
also constrained by my demands in life
but I think a lot of people fit into
that category. So Stephen if you want to
look like a freckled bald wrinkled man
this is what you can do. All right. So,
first of all, zero to little to no carbs
for um breakfast and lunch.
>> Okay. Little to no carbs for breakfast
and lunch. Carbs for breakfast and
lunch.
>> Yep. You wake up in the morning. Anyone
who's wearing a continuous glucose
monitor will find that their glucose
levels naturally rise in the morning and
that coincides with a mild state of
insulin resistance every morning because
of changes in cortisol and other
hormones. So my view is don't doubly
load to the glucose that's already
happening by eating in the morning with
starchy sugary stuff. So be very strict
with all of your meals up until dinner.
>> So just on point one so I'm clear.
You're saying no carbs but is there
anything that I should be having?
>> Yeah. So any if a person wants to as
much protein and fat as they'd like and
I would say especially for lunch, let
lunch be your biggest meal.
>> Okay. So let's go through those three
points. Yeah.
>> Um why as much protein as I can. Yeah.
Protein and fat.
>> Okay. Why?
>> Yeah. Because they won't have an insulin
effect. And that's the key. Like my
approach to staying lean at 50 years old
and having my wife like what she sees is
keeping my insulin low and and still not
being hungry all the time. And so
protein and fat are the two
macronutrients with carbohydrates being
the third. But protein and fat have
little to no effect on insulin. Fat has
none and protein may have a modest
effect depending on some other
variables. So you want to keep insulin
low.
>> So what would would that breakfast look
like?
>> So for me, I actually don't eat
breakfast. Uh and and again, this plays
into I'm extremely mindful of my family.
So that's going to come back again when
we get to dinner because we've left that
meal untouched for now.
>> In the morning, I make breakfast for my
kids every morning. Uh and it's
something I remember from my childhood
being raised by my dad and he every
morning it was just structured. And I
think all of my siblings and I have
thrived in life in part because of the
structure we had at the beginning of
every day where we would all eat
breakfast together. We would read
scriptures very briefly. We'd have a
family prayer very briefly and just
review the day. And I think that was my
dad's way of kind of surviving with so
many kids just to sort of check in with
everyone.
>> You had nine siblings.
>> Yeah. Yeah. There's nine of us. Yeah. Uh
and so we have uh I I'm very big on
that. So breakfast is dad's domain and
my wife cheers me on. Um, so I make
breakfast for the kids and I am sipping
on a cup of yerba mate the whole time.
>> Why?
>> Yeah, in part because I like the taste.
There's a good GLP1 effect. So, it helps
me feel a little more satiated. Um, and
it's just a habit. It's a little bit of
a perk, a little pickme up. I don't
drink coffee. I drink yerba mate
instead.
>> What is herb mate?
>> The brand that I get is called Una Mate.
And it's a it's a leaf. It's a South
American tea basically. And you can get
it in any number of ways. This is just a
really convenient and good way to get
it. So I'm sipping on a cup of it would
be someone drinking coffee or tea. I'm
taking yerba mate tea. Um so I don't eat
for breakfast. I find that I'm not
generally hungry for breakfast anyway.
And so I may as well keep my fasted
state going a little longer. So that's
what works for me. And then I would
encourage people to have a big hearty
lunch because if you have a big hearty
lunch, mostly protein and fat, it makes
it easier to taper off later in the day.
Especially in the evening if people are
noticing that they have significant
cravings especially for carbs because
that's the only thing anyone craves in
the evening have a bigger lunch. See if
that helps.
>> Okay.
>> And then sometime around either before
or after have a good resistance workout.
I have my resistance workout in the in
fact Stephen I even have to go a little
earlier. So, my first thing in the
morning is I go on a ruck at 5:00 a.m. I
have my weighted vest and these 15lb
kettle bells and I hike one mile up a
hill and one mile back every morning at
5:00 a.m. And then I get a little work
done and just some personal kind of
reflection and meditation time, if you
will. Then the family wakes up. I'm
making breakfast. The family chaos
begins. I'm sipping on my yerba mate.
Then I go to work. About 10:30 or 11 is
the good time for me. I go down to the
gym on campus and I do my very brief,
very effective, I would say, um,
resistance training and then I go into
the sauna for 12 to 15 minutes, but in
the morning I've done a little ice bath,
too. I didn't mention that. I have an
ice bath on my back patio, a Maroska
Forge, and I love it. It is spectacular.
Um, so then I do a sauna session after
my workout. Then I go eat my big lunch.
>> Why are you doing the ice bath in this
one? Yeah. So, I do I do an ice bath in
the morning because it helps me sleep
better in the evening. I'm a terrible
sleeper. And especially in the northern
hemisphere in the winter, the sun isn't
coming up till 9:00 or so, 9:00 a.m. And
by shocking my body, I get this jolt.
And I think it just helps get my clock
ticking. And so, by the time evening
rolls around, I'm tired and I'm ready
for bed.
>> Okay, I'm just doing my ketone test to
see where it is. We're probably about 30
minutes off me taking that ketone shot.
We'll continue with your day in just two
sec. And I'm now at 0.9.
>> It'll keep going. Yep. Yep. So, you were
08 0.9. Next one will be one, but it
looks like it's starting to curve a
little bit,
>> which isn't surprising. You went up
pretty quick and then it's going to
curve for a bit.
>> And what's going on in my body right now
that I have 0.9
>> K? Yes. So, that is a unit of
measurement called the mill moles. And
so, it's looking at the number of
molecules basically in a given amount of
of your blood. And so you took in that
ketone precursor, the liver converted
it. It's just continuing to convert it
into BHB.
>> BHB being ketones.
>> BHB being the main ketone. Yep.
>> Okay. Yep.
>> And that's making me
>> Well, it's going to make you sharp.
Okay.
>> So, your brain is now using those
ketones. Your heart would be using the
ketones. Um, and your reliance on
glucose as a fuel for your brain and
your heart would be going down.
>> Wouldn't my hunger be going down?
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah.
>> So, I'm going to be less hungry. But
also the benefits of BHB in the brain
are are myriad where it's been shown to
be an anxolytic. So it can control
anxiety. Uh it can control it can
improve depression. It can help with
attention,
>> memory. I
>> memory. Oh, certainly with cognition.
Yes.
>> I've read I read about the studies on
dementia patients that
>> Yes. That is it is incredibly we're
entering a kind of dawning of an era of
ketone research where the number of NIH
and NSF funded ketone related projects
is
wonderful. It's thrilling to see where
it's going to be a wonderful decade of a
lot of great biomedical research on the
metabolism of ketones. Do you know
something I've noticed? Most commercial
teams aren't tested by their targets.
They're tested by the weight of the
admin that comes with every client. All
the follow-ups, all the meetings, all
the notes, the timelines that never ever
stop. These were a constant source of
friction in my commercial team until I
introduced our sponsor, Piperive. If
you're not familiar, Pipe Drive is a
simple but powerful sales CRM that gives
you visibility on any deals through a
sales pipeline. It also automates a lot
of the tedious, repetitive, and
timeconsuming tasks that come with the
sales process. I've used it across my
investments for almost a decade now,
even when I was at Social Chain. And
it's so effective in part because it's
customizable. We've been able to tailor
it for different teams depending on how
they work. Pipe Drive also scales with
your business, and you can also link it
to over 500 different apps. It is hands
down my favorite CRM tool. Try it right
now for free for 30 days. No credit card
or payment required just using my link
below. Or you can go to piperive.com/ce
to get started. That's
pipedive.com/ceeo.
>> So let's go back to the perfect day, the
perfect, the perfect lifestyle for 2026.
So then do my resistance training at
some point after I've had my breakfasts.
>> Well, yes. So whatever for me, I I do
body weight based exercises. So, I don't
like having a big belly of food. And so,
being in a fasted state, my view on
exercising, even that's a debate. Do you
exercise fasted or do you exercise with
fuel? Um, like you take a bunch of carbs
and stuff. My view is it's dependent on
what your goal is. As a middle-aged guy,
my goal is not performance. It's not
going out and sprinting and showing
power. It's to live a long healthy life.
And so, it's a more metabolic focus. If
your if your interest is metabolic, then
I think fasting fa exercising in a
fasted state is very smart. If your goal
of the exercise is performance, like
you're a collegiate athlete or you are,
you know, you're an elite rugby player
or something, okay, then don't exercise
fasted. Take some fuel before you go
work out. So for me, I've done my early
morning ruck, my personal kind of
reflection time, ice bath, yerba mate,
and then my midm morning workout.
>> Just on that point of exercising fasted,
>> why is that better if your goals are
longevity and health,
>> right? Because it's just going to help
you continue to burn fat and improve
maintain your insulin sensitivity.
>> Okay, fine. So, I have my midm morning
workout, then I have a nice big lunch,
then I have my afternoon productivity,
and then I get to dinner, and dinner is
the main social meal within my home. Um,
and so I have dinner with my family. And
that is carb lunch. Whatever the
family's eating, I'm eating. I have I
have daughters and as a college
professor I've seen enough young women
struggle with eating disorders that I
always worried would my incessant
talking about diet somehow stimulate
eating disorders and I've never wanted
to become obsessive about it and so I
have dinner with my family whatever it
is if it's pizza I'm having pizza if
it's pasta I'm having pasta um now my
wife happens to see things kind of the
way I do so it's usually meat and
vegetables in in some mix and and that's
my dinner and then ideally
I'm done.
>> What time are you having that dinner?
>> Yeah, that's about five or six.
>> And you you avoid eating late.
>> Oh yes. In fact, I would submit Stephen,
if we were to look at any one thing
someone could do, I would say anyone who
says, "Ben, what is the one thing?" If
I'm putting a question in your mouth,
I'd say stop snacking in the evening.
Anything you can do to not overeat and
go to bed hypoglycemic or elevated or
spike your blood glucose levels, do it.
>> Why?
>> That's when people at their weakest.
People, you and I could be hanging out
all day walking past a plate of cookies
and not be tempted at all until 7 or
8:00 p.m. It's just human nature. And
yet that is one of the worst times to
eat it because when you go to bed
hypoglycemic, it activates a part of the
nervous system, an aspect of the nervous
system called the sympathetic nervous
system. That's also known as the fight
orflight. So when someone we hear a car
crash right nearby or we hear a gunshot,
then our immediately our heart starts
beating faster and harder. Our body
temperature climbs and we're stimulated.
hypoglycemia will have that effect. And
that is terrible timing because when
you're going to bed, you're wanting to
rely on your what's called your
parasympathetic nervous system. The part
of your the aspect of your nervous
system that is calming, it's lowering
your heart rate. It's slowing your
heart. It's lowering your blood
pressure. It's helping you calm down to
sleep better. Hypoglycemia
throws that into opposites. So then
you're going to bed, you're lying there
wondering why your heart is beating so
hard, why you are so hot and
uncomfortable, and it's because you just
spiked your blood glucose with a bunch
of sugar.
>> Is there anything else?
Is there, you know, for people that are
focused on that 2026 goal of finally
becoming the person that they know they
can become, is there anything else you
would say to them? Is there any tools
they need to buy? Is there any other
tricks or tactics or hacks?
>> Yeah. Yeah, I do think that they could
if they were adopting this diet, it's
definitely going to put them into
ketosis. That can take a little time to
adjust. So, very relevant to our earlier
conversation. I do think exogenous
ketones can help a person transition
into relying on a ketogenic diet more
readily. And anytime a person's losing
weight, they run the risk of losing some
lean mass at the same time. And we, my
lab just published a paper about two
weeks ago at the time we're filming
this, finding that in humans in a weight
loss protocol, if they were drinking BHB
or exogenous ketones, they were able to
retain more muscle mass, more lean mass
in the midst of the weight loss. So,
there could be some strategies like
that. But I would also add that there
are some non um physical ones as well.
If someone's trying to say, I'm going to
be the best version of myself, then
start reading more, too. Read more
books. You'll be the best. You'll be an
even better version as you're losing
weight. Um, and your brain is firing on
more cylinders than ever before as it's
fueled with ketones. Challenge your
brain. You had mentioned dementia
earlier. Ketones are a therapy for
dementia, but so too is challenging your
brain in the form of um making it learn
new things. So, read a good book.
>> This woman contacted me on the on
November the 11th. When you do a
podcast, you get lots of feedback. you
get like tens of thousands of people
sometimes per episode
>> and I can imagine you looking through
everyone finding gems.
>> I actually funnily enough I do look at
the comment section because it's it's a
place where I really trust the feedback.
So people that comment on these videos
like I really do trust them because they
are typically listeners. They've kind of
been with me on this whole journey. So
when they have feedback when they have
you know good or bad feedback on the or
constructive feedback we pay attention.
>> Well Stephen I'm pleased that something
brought me back. So the comments can't
have been too negative. No, they were
really I mean they were unbelievably
positive. But I got this one from on
LinkedIn from a lady called I'll keep
her anonymous. Let's just call her Mrs.
L.
>> Okay.
>> And Mrs. L said, "Hi, Stephen. Thank you
for the great work you do and the
information, insights, inspiration you
provide. On keto, my husband lasted 8
hours on a keto diet and was
unconscious. It turned out he had a
neurodine cancer called insulum."
>> Oh. Oh, yeah. Yeah. No. a neuroendocrine
cancer called insulinoma.
>> I said that's exactly what I said.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Did I hear a niner in there?
Yeah. Something.
>> And if the paramedics hadn't intercepted
with glucose, going keto would have
killed him.
>> Yes.
>> He's amazing. We have three children and
he volunteers for 50
>> more every weekend. We don't want to
lose him.
>> Sorry to share this sad story, but it's
not the first time I've seen one of your
posts or one of your guests talk about
ketosis
and what's worked well. And in this
case, it was fatal for him. Yes. So, I
hope you don't mind, but I wanted to
share this with love, respect, and
kindness to hopefully give food for
thought, no pun intended, of how you
decide to use your platform and to
provide further context and nuance.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> What works for you and thousands of
others might not work for everyone. I
believe it's super important that we
share this information and inspiration
carefully and in a way that exemplifies
a growth mindset, not a fixed mindset.
for example, not fixed one diet or one
way of working for everybody. If you
read this above all else, please know
I'm sending this with the utmost respect
and kindness and hope. Best
>> love it. Yeah, what a thoughtful what a
thoughtful message.
>> Yeah, it is very thoughtful. I
appreciate I appreciate any kind
communication by the way because on
social media it is so easy just to
become the worst version of yourself
without fear of any consequence. So, she
happened to describe a person who would
probably be the the worst individual. So
an insulinoma, she describes a
neuroendocrine cancer. An insulinoma is
an insulin secretreting tumor. So
usually it's the pancreas, which for
those watching is here. Again, imagine
that a part of the pancreas is expanding
with a tumor, but it's filled with cells
that make insulin. So it's a bunch of
beta cells, which are the cells that
make insulin. And this is a guy who
can't stop making insulin.
Suffice to say, if you now cut your
carbohydrate consumption and you're
continuing to make tons of insulin,
which is not normal, so this is a very
much a disease state, and I appreciate
her stating it as such. It's a cancer,
it's a tumor of the pancreas. So, what
would have happened in him, he cuts the
gluc, he cuts his carbohydrates, but he
can't stop making insulin. So now it's
actually back to that diet that you and
I that I mentioned at the beginning of
our conversation where the people were
eating a high carb version or a low carb
version of a diet. When you spike
insulin, you lower both glucose and
ketones. And that's what happened to
him. He would have become hypoglycemic
and he would almost never make any
ketones because he always has high
insulin. M
>> and so he would have been depriving his
brain of its two fuels in uh lowering
the glucose by pushing it into muscle
and fat and blocking the liver from
making ketones. So he's the worst person
anyone with an insulinoma. Of course
neither you nor I are giving any medical
advice. Um but if a person has an
insulinoma that's like the worst person
to adopt a low carb diet. They have to
eat carbs because they're always making
insulin. They can't stop. What's
interesting is it it appears from what
she's written that her husband found out
that he had this
>> Oh, because of adopting the diet.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh my gosh, that's remarkable. Yeah. So,
a person could test this early though,
Stephen. So, just what you've been doing
now over the past period of time by
pricking your finger, if a person
worried that they had an insulinoma,
they could just on a random morning uh
or fast for fast for 12 hours or so and
measure your glucose. Um, if you have a
continuous glucose monitor, even easier.
Look at your glucose. Because in you and
I, if we fast for 24 hours, our glucose
levels stay normal. They just run along
like nothing's happened. In a person
with an insulinoma, they're getting
lower and lower and lower and lower all
constantly because they can't stop
making insulin and it's always driving
their blood glucose levels lower. So, a
person could determine that on their
own. This would have been a guy who
anytime he fasted at all, he would have
started to feel miserable
>> cuz she says in the message, "My husband
lasted eight hours on a keto diet and
was unconscious. It turned out," which
suggests that they found out
>> and we hope the husband's doing well.
>> Yes.
>> Boy, an insulin is a big deal. My hope
is that they would be able to identify
the location of the tumor. Um, and you
can What's cool about cancer is that
cancer is such a sugar eater. It eats so
much glucose that you can inject glucose
into someone that has a little bit of
radiation to it, not harmful, but then
you can do an X-ray and see where does
all the glucose go and it would be going
to this little lump on the on the on the
pancreas. And so hopefully they can cut
it out.
>> What does that say about cancer and
sugar?
>> Oh my. Yeah. So you I know you've had
the authority on this. So everything I'm
about to say is me quoting Dr. Thomas
Seaff Freed who is he needs all the
attention in the world as he has
resurrected
uh an almost 100-year-old view of cancer
being a disease of glucose and sugar
metabolism the Warberg effect it's
called but Dr. Thomas Seaff Freed has
been a champion of of bringing this view
into the modern era by finding that
cancer cells rely on glucose as their
fuel primarily. He also identifies
glutamine. But if you can deprive the
cancer cell of its fuel, normal
interventions even like chemotherapies
which have terrible rates of success,
they become suddenly much more
effective.
>> In fact, my part of my motivation in
adhering to a ketogenic diet is is
cancer related. when I my mom passed
away from cancer as a boy and it's been
one of those diseases that's always
scared me a little bit and I think all
right my statistical likelihood of
getting a cancer in life is going to be
higher than average because of a
first-degree relative dying from cancer
so one of the reasons and I've already
outlived my my my saintly mom now one of
the reasons I adhere to a ketogenic diet
is I want to do what I can to try to
kill any little budding cancer cells by
starving them of their glucose that they
want
>> remember when we had him on the show
remember the BBC obviously weren't very
happy that I had him on and said that it
was uh
>> no
>> it was misinformation.
>> Oh my gosh, isn't that unfortunate? So
he is the leading authority I would say
in the world on cancer metabolism and
it's such a shame that his finding and
let let me he might have explained this
already but I just want to explain to
everyone as a scientist how thrilled I
was to see what he'd done and how
disruptive it was to the convention. And
let's ad let's admit what we think we
know about cancer isn't working. Cancer
rates continue to climb. Cancer
mortality continues to climb. Clearly
the old views aren't working. He took
tumor cells and then so cancer cells and
then moved over the nucleus because the
traditional view is that it's a disease
of mutations and all of these genes are
in the nucleus the the kind of brain of
the cell. He took the nucleus from a
cancer cell, put it into a healthy cell,
and then you would think if it's a
disease of the nucleus and all of those
genes, mutations, this cell should have
cancer now. And yet, it didn't. It was a
totally normal cell. It didn't matter at
all that it now had the nucleus of a
cancer cell. However, when he took the
mitochondria
from the the energy factory of the cell
that's so disrupted in cancer, he took
the mitochondria from the cancer cell,
put that into a normal cell. Now, it was
a cancer cell.
But what a disruptive view. It proves
that it's a mitochondrial problem more
than a nucleus problem. And then it
suggests it it adds evidence to his view
and th others of us as well that cancer
is a metabolic problem.
>> So when when you know publications like
the BBC attack my guest for saying such
a thing or for you know for me having
them on the show and suggest that it's
like misinformation or dangerous
information.
>> How how how do you inter how do you
interpret that cuz
>> oh it's so discouraging. Um I I
interpret it as we've seen echoes and
shadows of this in the past five or six
years um with the pandemic and
everything related to it where science
can be very inconvenient um to
various entities and institutions. Um
and we see scientists who will
compromise themselves to try to receive
the funding and the adoration of those
institutions and entities.
But it is anti- it is it is an attack.
Science is a the pursuit of truth. I I I
was blessed to do my dissertation work,
my PhD studies with a wonderful man
named Lionus Dome. I will love him
forever. Um one of the things he taught
me, I'd come to him with discouraging
results. The hypothesis that I'd had
with regards to fat and insulin
resistance, it was not supporting. The
data were terrible in this particular
line of experiments. And he wasn't he
was unflapable. He wasn't upset. He
wasn't angry. He said, "Ben, don't be
upset. That's truth. We are seekers of
truth." That's what scientists are. What
a glorious thing to get paid to seek
truth. It doesn't pay that well, but it
it's a glorious job nonetheless.
That is what Dr. Thomas Seaf Freed is
doing. And when I think you have a big
entity like the BBC telling a scientist
who's simply stating his own findings
that have been peer- reviewviewed by
other experts in the field, it should be
beyond it should be he should have every
platform in the world to talk about
this. Every scientist ought to and it
ought to be scrutinized. Scientists
should never think they know the truth.
Even the declarations in the past few
years of believe the science. No, that
is anti-scientific.
Science is is con a scientist must be so
humble that he or she is constantly
prepared to dump their hypothesis if
they've been shown to be wrong.
>> And I guess it's important for those
ideas to be out there for you to even be
able to scrutinize them and challenge
them,
>> especially in something like cancer
where clearly what we're doing isn't
working. And so let's welcome new ideas.
And his evidence is incredibly
compelling. It's it's so discouraging to
hear, but but it is also Stephen perhaps
a manifestation of a broader opposition
to anything low carb. You just utter the
word ketone to a dogmatic and
conventionally trained dietician. Oh my
gosh, you are tempting their wrath. They
will it's it's like the more the more
educated a person gets, the more rigid
they become from time to time in their
ideas. You should never see that in a
scientist. A scientist by our by our
through our training, we should be
humble enough to admit that we don't
know everything.
>> I remember when um they contacted me,
the journalist at the BBC, and said,
"We're going to write the story about,
you know, the misinformation spread by
these guests." And I looked at what they
had said and this and they made this
little documentary did this article and
they had found that 0.0
Zero zero 1% of our total recorded hours
of conversation and transcripts contain
things that they thought were could be
disputed.
>> Oh my god.
>> And they felt with 0.00
one they would write this big breaking
news story in this article. And I
remember thinking oh like that was the
day that I that I felt I understood.
>> That was the day that I felt I
understood how the system works.
>> You could you peaked behind the curtain.
I got to see behind the curtain and I
was like, "Oh, I thought,
>> you know, I thought that um these like
cuz it's like a big brand and I've grown
up looking at it. I thought like they
are so concerned about rigor and the
most important thing and balance." And I
said to the I said to the journalist, I
said um of what you found 0.001
because they said you've got a right to
reply. So that was my reply.
>> They
>> and of course they wouldn't have
published that.
>> They took it out. They took my response
out because it was too d it was too like
you know. Yep. And then obviously the
other thing they pointed at another
guest that I'd had on and said, you
know, you also had this person on and I
so I went on I just typed his name in
and the word BBC and they'd had him on
too.
>> Oh my god.
>> And in fact, when he had came on this
particular doctor and he had said his
points of views, the journalist at the
BBC had just basically said nothing and
that was the end of the segment. When he
said it to me,
>> then all of a sudden it's a problem.
>> No, I read out the rebuttal from the
British Heart Foundation. I read out all
of the rebuttals to what he just said,
but of course the BBC published this
article saying that I'd had him on. They
had had him on too. They' never
rebuttled him. I did. And they and so
this was the moment that I thought
>> you're becoming disruptive. To be
honest, I suspect a part of it is you
are the embodiment of a new media. You
know, I I think even beyond the science.
So if this had been in the US, I would
have speculated that a part of the their
concern would have been that you are
sharing, you're platforming someone who
is bad for their bottom line because so
much of the income that nudes that media
outlets get in the US is from drug
company ads. In the UK, you don't have
that. Drug companies don't um aren't I
don't think they're allowed to air ads
on normal channels. In the UK, I think
is to a degree happening everywhere.
your platform is probably bigger than
many of theirs and they might feel
that's threatening.
>> It's interesting because I try and
remain as objective as I can. So in
those moments, one of my strategies is
to try and understand what the signal is
versus the noise
>> and to take all of this noise and figure
out exactly um what really really
matters as it relates to my genuine
mission, which is for the audience that
decide to tune in every single week and
day and month to get really great
information to improve their lives.
Yeah. and uh to to be able to strive at
the things that they care about striving
for, whether that's business or
entrepreneurship or whether it's their
health goals or fitness or finance or
whatever. And the thing I actually took
away from it is that there is a lot of
information um when you're pursuing
science.
>> And so the one of the best things we can
do because we know we're going to
continue to have lots of different
voices on the show is to continue to
provide more context on what's what's
being said. So, one of the things we've
we introduced this year, which I really
love, is on the screen during these
conversations as you're talking about
different complicated words or you're
talking about different studies or
whatever it might be, those studies will
be appearing on the screen for the
audience to see.
>> And I think I think this is a first in
podcasting. I don't think anyone else
any of the major podcasters have done
done this kind of thing. But that is
something I actually took away from it.
I thought, you know what, we can give
our audience even more context so that
they have a fuller picture.
>> That's brilliant. So, you know, every
cloud.
>> Yeah. Yeah. No, it's certainly an
opportunity to iterate and say, "All
right, how could we do it better?" Not
everyone's going to not everyone's going
to take that approach, though.
>> Always. And, you know, like it always
come the question I was asking myself is
like, "What are we here to do and what
is our mission? And what would further
the success of our mission?" And that's
one such thing. So, for people, I had a
lady contact me the other day. She said,
"I listen on Spotify. I didn't realize
that you were doing these like pop-up
things on screen." But, um,
>> but they're there. And also, I mean,
there definitely is a reason to watch.
>> Yeah. And in the description as well,
there'll be there'll be a link to
context as well that you can check out.
>> But getting back to it, um, so 2026,
you've given me the sort of daily
protocol to follow. Is there anything
else that we've missed cuz I really want
to make sure that people listening
achieve their 2026 health goals. I And
you know what those goals are because
people message you.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. I mean, it's
always it's almost always weight loss in
some way, shape, or form. No, I think
that protocol is smart. I mean we didn't
talk I mentioned a little bit about the
role of exogenous ketones um which I am
an advocate of uh and I would say if a
person is able to maybe just sort of
look at what other supplements they
might be interested in like omega-3 if
they are looking to gain muscle and
they're working out and doing some
resistance protocols definitely I would
say if you're not eating omega-3 rich
sources of foods like fish then get a
good omega-3 supplement. Omega-3 helps
with muscle building in a very
meaningful way. It's It's not just one
of those It's not just something you
take for heart health.
>> We were talking before we started
recording about vitamins.
>> Mhm. Yeah. Right. Yeah. So, I was joking
with you about how I was listening to
this conversation. So, everything I'm
about to explain, people know that I am
I'm not an expert. As much as I'm a
metabolism expert, that allows me to
talk about this somewhat intelligently.
So, let me lay the groundwork here. So,
I was listening to a discussion of a
rancher, a person who's growing
livestock. And of course, just to help
the business, you want these animals to
get as big and even fat as possible and
then get them off um to to you know,
just make your money. They found that
I'm going to I'm going to mess up these
numbers a little bit, but I'm going to
be closer than than someone might think.
>> I'll put them on the screen. So they
found that for roughly every six pounds
of feed they would give an animal. So
for every six pounds of food, you could
expect one pound of growth in just
normal a normal feed of normal just a
mix of the the soy, the corn, whatever
they're eating in in pigs or cattle. And
then if you start adding B vitamin
complexes, like a bunch of B vitamins,
and then the higher that gets, you can
go from 3 L pounds of feed is enough to
get one pound. All up to the point where
they could find that they could give the
animals for every two pounds of food
they would eat, they would gain one
pound. So they had effectively tripled
the efficiency with which the animals
were able to get fat off of a given
amount of food. So, one of my concerns
as a scientist is the degree to which
part of our obesity epidemic might be
the degree to which we are consuming too
much vitamins, especially B vitamins.
And the irony there is that people take
B vitamins because they want their
metabolism to be more efficient. You'll
hear that term. And yet, when it comes
to weight loss, you actually don't want
efficiency. You want inefficiency. Let
me invoke the analogy of an engine. So,
let's imagine that we're sitting in a
car and we are in drive. We're in gear.
We press the accelerator and we see the
RPMs going up. That means we're burning
fuel. The engine's revving. And because
we're in drive, we're moving. So, we're
actually driving. So, we're getting work
done. That's what we would say is
efficient. And an inefficient metabolism
is actually more conducive to weight
loss because now you're revving your
engine, but you're in neutral. And so,
you're not going anywhere. you don't
have to get any work done. So, this
would that's maybe a little step too far
with the metaphor, but B vitamins are
essentially making potentially the
mitochondria and the cell be so
efficient that it's storing more energy
better rather than burning it and
wasting it.
>> Storing more fat.
>> Storing more fat. You see echoes of you
see hints of this in human studies where
when they take high doses of niacin in
various clinical trials,
>> what's nice? It's one of the B vitamins
or many of the B vitamins, but do you
see substance in humans of of that
supports this view where high doses of
some of these vitamins do result in
weight gain? Now, they're not really
wellont controlled studies, but
nevertheless, combined with the animal
data, it does suggest that there's
something about maybe people taking too
many of these B vitamins and they're
getting fatter for every calorie
consumed because the body is just
storing it too easily.
>> And you're talking about taking too
much. You're not talking about
>> taking too much. I'm not talking about
like reaching the daily minimum, but
people are going like two or three or
four times beyond that nowadays because
everything is fortified. You'd mentioned
one of the people in the comments
mentioned that they cut out flour. Flour
is heavily heavily fortified with B
vitamins. And so every time we're eating
it, we're getting B vitamins from
everything. And usually it's coming with
processed carbohydrates. So one more
reason because you're not going to get
an overload of B vitamins from just
steak and eggs. It's going to be
something that's been packaged because
it's been fortified with these B
vitamins. So, one of that might be one
of the reasons why people are getting
fatter than ever.
>> I've got this uh pen in front of me. Do
you know what this is?
>> That's a GLP-1 medication.
>> A Zmpeek.
>> Ompic. Yeah.
>> I've got an Ampec pen right here. Now,
you've told me lots of different ways
that I can lose my body fat in 2026,
but couldn't I just jab myself with this
and my hunger will evaporate and I'll
lose fat. So that works until it
doesn't. By that I mean we have really
really good data now. So briefly on
GLP1, although I know your audience is
probably very familiar with this by now.
GLP-1 is primarily a satiety hormone.
It'll tell the brain that we're done
eating and it will slow down the
intestines significantly. So you'll eat
food. If you and I were to go eat lunch,
again, I've used that a couple times.
Our food would be in our stomach for
four to six hours maybe. If we injected
ourselves with a GLP-1 drug, which puts
an artificial amount of GLP-1 in our
body, boom, we sh it in. It's some we
grab a piece of fat and jab it in. Then
it would it slows down people's
intestines so much that they'll have
food sitting in there for 24 hours. So,
one of the things people talk about is
what's called ompic burps where they
just have this kind of belching bubbling
gas because the food is sitting in the
stomach for way longer than it's
supposed to. So, no surprise the people
are less interested in food. GLP-1 tells
the brain they don't need to eat as much
and slows down the intestines. Now,
however, I said it works until it
doesn't.
There the main thing it helps people do
is eat less carbohydrates. It controls
cravings particularly. But there was a
human paper that found when they
followed people for 2 years. It was a
beautiful figure. At about 6 months,
they found that sweet cravings dropped
significantly. A huge reduction in their
cravings for chocolate and sweets. At 12
months, it creeped up a little bit, but
it was still noticeably below where it
started. At 2 years, it was right back
to normal. So at two years on the drug,
the effects of having them not be
interested in that plate of cookies now
it's gone.
>> What's going on there?
>> So yeah, it's it's diminishing returns
as to invoke a principle of economics.
Doing the same thing again and again and
again starts to work less and less and
less. This we see this manifested in
innumerable different ways of
medications. So why do our clinicians
why does the doctor tell us to make sure
we take our full dose of antibiotic?
Because if we don't, we give it just
enough for the bacteria to become
resistant to it. And now next time we
would need two times the amount of B of
antibiotic we had. So it's it's natural
for the human body to become less
responsive to a stimulus. And that is so
much GLP-1 activation that it's no
surprise that the body starts to say,
"Hey, you're screaming at me too much
and I'm going to become deaf to your
signal."
So it starts to work less. And in the UK
and in the US about 70% of people get
off the drug of their own valition at
two years. They get tired of being on
the drug because it's basically like a
constant state of nausea. That's that's
kind of how you'd say it works that if
you're feeling always a little nauseous,
you just don't really want to snack on
something and people get tired of
feeling nauseous. But another two-year
study, two years appears to be kind of a
magic timeline, found that of of every
every pound they lost, 40% of it was
from lean ma from fat-ree mass.
>> What does that mean?
>> So that means 60% was coming from fat,
40% was coming from not fat, including
muscle and bone. It would be water as
well, but muscle and bone. And that
matters because imagine if we have an
older woman. Let's imagine a 60-year-old
woman who wants to lose weight and goes
on a drug.
If she's lost weight now and then two
years later wants to get off the drug
like 70% of people do, she will her fat
mass will come right back, but her lean
mass may never come back. That muscle
and bone may be gone for good.
>> Who is it for? Who who would you
recommend definitely does that does it
uses it? And for how long with what
other supplementation? Yeah, my my
recommendation of the drug is to not
currently it's being used for weight
loss where people just say here, jab
yourself with this and you're going to
lose weight. Um, and it works. They will
absolutely lose weight. But again, the
concern being that you're going to uh
lose a lot of lean mass at the same
time. So my best use of that drug would
be using it with two distinct purpose,
two two ways, but for one purpose, which
is this is a drug that's going to help
you learn to control carbohydrates
because that's the one macronutrient
that people are addicted to. They're
addicted to carbs. We eat too many
carbs. We're a carb crazed culture. So
my view is use these drugs to help
people cure their cravings for
carbohydrates.
>> But then when I stop taking it, isn't it
going to come back?
>> Well, so that's it then. So then you use
it in two different ways. One, you use a
much lower dose than is currently used.
what we could call a micro dose, if you
will. Um, so use a lower dose and you
cycle it on and off. So what I think
people should be doing, and I'm going to
talk about evidence to support this in
just a second, go 90 days on the drug at
a low dose while receiving coaching or
counseling on how to use a low carb diet
because they will find it easier than
ever to control their carb consumption.
Then at the end of 90 days, wean them
off the drug and say, "Let's see if
these habits have stuck." Very often
they have. I know many, many people, and
again, we're going to be publishing a
report on this. I'll touch on that in
just a second, who they've done 90-day
cycle of a lowdose GLP-1 coupled with
coaching on how to do a low carb diet,
and they find that their cravings are
gone and they don't need to be on the
drug anymore. Some people will find that
it lasts for a while, and the cravings
start to come back. All right. Well,
let's cycle you back on and try again.
Let's find out what didn't work this
time. So, we're about to publish a
report. Anyone who wants to see a little
more about this, I just encourage them
to go to my site, insulinq.com.
>> I'll link it below.
>> Great. Um, but we have done a a
collaborative work with a group in
Idaho, a clinic in Idaho, where they
have done just this. They have people
getting low carb counseling with a
cycled do low dose of GLP1 and the
results vastly outperform those who just
rely on the drug. Better fat loss and
better retention of muscle mass.
>> And when you say low carb counseling,
that's just
>> it's just people like me, you know, me
saying, "Stephen, I'd like to go on a
low carb diet." You saying, "Okay,
great. Let's talk about how you can do
it best." Kind of a little bit like what
we've been doing, but basically just
like a diet coach.
>> Okay.
>> But the results have been fantastic. Um,
literally outperforming just the drug
trials alone.
>> Over what period of time?
>> Yeah. So, it's now been we have people
who have been two to three years.
>> Yeah. We'll publish that soon. It's not
submitted yet.
>> All I had to do was brain dump. Imagine
if you had someone with you at all times
that could take the ideas you have in
your head, synthesize them with AI to
make them sound better and more
grammatically correct and write them
down for you. This is exactly what
Whisper Flow is in my life. It is this
thought partner that helps me explain
what I want to say. And it now means
that on the go, when I'm alone in my
office, when I'm out and about, I can
respond to emails and Slack messages and
WhatsApps and everything across all of
my devices just by speaking. I love this
tool. And I started talking about this
on my behindthe-scenes channel a couple
of months back. And then the founder
reached out to me and said, "We're
seeing a lot of people come to our tour
because of you. So, we'd love to be a
sponsor. We'd love you to be an investor
in the company." And so, I signed up for
both of those offers. and I'm now an
investor and a huge partner in a company
called Whisper Flow. You have to check
it out. Whisper Flow is four times
faster than typing. So, if you want to
give it a try, head over to
whisperflow.ai/doac
to get started for free and you can find
that link to Whisperflow in the
description below. You know, every once
in a while you come across a product
that has such a huge impact on your life
that you'd probably describe as a
gamecher. And I would say for about 35
to 40% of my team, they would currently
describe this product that I have in
front of me called Ketone IQ, which you
can get at ketone.com
as a game changer. But the reason I
became a co-owner of this company and
the reason why they they now are a
sponsor of this podcast is because one
day when I came to work, there was a box
of this stuff sat on my desk. I had no
idea what it was. Lily and my team says
that this company have been in touch. So
I went upstairs, tried it, and quite
frankly, the rest is history. in terms
of my focus, my energy levels, how I
feel, how I work, how productive I am.
Game changer. So, if you want to give it
a try, visit ketone.com/stephven
for 30% off. You'll also get a free gift
with your second shipment. And now you
can find Ketone IQ at Target stores
across the United States where your
first shot is completely free of charge.
I have a bunch of other things here on
the table that my team have got me and
they didn't tell me why they've got me
these which I think is useful because
this means that I can ask questions that
the viewer might have. What the hell is
this?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So alulose is
>> for anyone that can't see it's a white.
>> So if you you could lick it. Lick your
finger. You could put it in. It's going
to taste a little bit like a kind of
diluted sugar. It's just a sweetener.
>> Okay.
>> It's not quite as sweet as sugar. If it
is actually alulose maybe.
>> I'm so
>> Maybe it's not. Definitely.
>> Oh, I'm so sorry.
>> This is definitely a prop. It tastes
like bleach.
>> It's not bleach, is it?
>> No, it tastes awful, though. It tastes
like um
>> Oh my gosh. Sorry.
>> They labeled it alulose, but it tastes
like the thing that you use to clean
your clothes.
>> Baking powder.
>> Oh, it's baking powder.
>> Okay. So, at least it's not going to
kill you. Oh my gosh. If it were bleach,
you need to go rinse your mouth.
>> That was the end of the podcast.
>> Oh my god.
>> Yeah. Ben Dickman kills Steve Bartlett.
>> Okay. I didn't know that. I'm so sorry.
So,
>> Alulos. Alulose is a it's a sugar
replacement. It's what's called a rare
sugar. Um, by that I mean it exists in
nature. It is a sugar-like molecule. It
tastes sweet and yet it it is non-
metabolizable. It it doesn't get taken
into the body and it's not calories you
need to worry about. But what it does in
the context of this discussion is that
it will go further in the intestines and
elicit a significant increase in GLP-1
production. So, this would be one of the
ways that someone listening who may be
even on a GLP-1 drug and thinking, I
need an exit. I want to get off this
drug. I can't afford it or I feel
miserable. I'm tired of the nausea. Um,
using alulose either as a sweetener in a
coffee or a tea or your baking or
whatever is a way to increase your GLP1
naturally. So, is your mate that I'm I'm
drinking now that I start every morning
with that has been shown. We've
published a couple reports on that. That
works as well.
>> And what foods have also in them? Yeah,
alulose is not something that you're
going to get naturally. It has to be
>> added.
>> Yeah, it's added. But there are some
like there are some yogurts now that
have it. There are a few supplements
that will use it as its sweetener and I
encourage that development. It's a good
sweetener to use.
>> Okay. This other chemical that my team
have got here, which is again, it's a a
white powder.
>> I'm not going to try it this time just
in case it's something awful.
>> Um says has a label on it that says
collagen peptide. Yeah.
>> Why have they got this?
>> Yeah. So collagen peptides are another
way to increase GLP-1. So that would be
another signal here that if someone is
interested in a good smart way of losing
weight, I am a fan of collagen. There
was in fact just a paper just published
this week finding that a mix of collagen
and various amino acids um was very
effective at enhancing skin integrity
and the collagen in the skin. So I'm a
fan of collagen peptides. Are there any
supplements that we haven't mentioned
that you're a big fan of in terms of
weight loss?
>> Yeah, I'm I already mentioned a Go BHB,
so an exogenous ketone source. Uh I do
take collagen um as well. Um it's called
iron feather. I love it. Um but also
omega-3 in addition to other habits like
the the yerba mate, which I love and
other things like that. I don't call it
a supplement as much as just a habit.
>> What about creatine?
>> Oh, yes. Yes. I I'm I I can't believe I
didn't mention that. I'm very much an
advocate of creatine. In fact, we have a
study going on right now on it, which
I'll come back to in a second. Um yeah,
creatine has been um it's kind of the
new thing where its traditional use had
been in muscle and then now all of the
hot evidence is coming out in the brain.
So in the muscle evidence, there's two
things to note. In fact, the first one
is generic where creatine, not that
you're asking this, but people may
wonder how it works. Creatine will be
taken into a cell and it creates this
pool of potential energy called creatine
phosphate. Now, earlier I'd mentioned
ATP and I'm holding up three fingers
because of the three phosphates on that
ATP, the triphosphate molecule.
When we say contract a muscle or a nerve
is sending a signal, you're breaking ATP
apart. You're splitting off one of those
phosphates. Now, you're left with a
diphosphate, ADP. In order to recycle or
regenerate the ATP, you need another
phosphate molecule. And this is where
creatine comes in because creatine has a
phosphate now that it can come and give
to the ATP. rapidly recycling ATP
>> which means
>> so you're able to restore the energy in
the cell sooner
>> which means for me on a daily basis
>> on a daily basis would it' be two things
uh in the two tissues of interest one
you can get more work out of your muscle
in a given unit of time yeah
>> so if you wanted to have a very
effective 30-minute workout your rests
could be much shorter because of your
ability to regenerate ATP or recover but
then the newest area of research is
what's happening in the brain where
creatine has been shown to increase
brain energy and there are some
incredible human studies finding that
you take people with cognitive decline
or some form of early dementia. Give
them creatine supplementation and over
the next few weeks their cognition will
improve. So, as much as you have the gym
bros who are taking it for muscle, which
I'm sympathetic to, I want big healthy
muscles, too. Um, more than anything,
you and I, we're not getting paid
because of our muscles. We're getting
paid because of our brains. So, you and
I are taking creatine to have bigger,
better brains. But in order for the
creatine to saturate the brain, you need
more. And that's been some of the newest
focus where you can get away if you're
just taking it for muscle purposes, five
grams is enough of creatine monohydrate.
And if you want to get it to work for
the brain, you need 10 or 15 grams. So
quite a bit more.
>> I heard this from another guest I had on
the show and I was really shocked um
because I didn't think about creatine as
being something that could really
elevate my cognitive performance. And
from the studies that I've read in the
research ahead of this conversation, I
read that creatine helps your brain stay
sharp, especially when you're in a low
sleep
>> Yes.
>> mode or when you've been working very
very hard. So that's a study. There's a
human study that to sleepd deprived
people deliberately had them take
creatine versus the placebo and then do
a series of cognitive tests. No
surprise, the sleepd deprived people on
placebo did very poorly. They're so
tired. They're lethargic. the creatine
treatment group performed much better.
>> I heard this and I thought, "Wow, so
when I'm like jetlagged or underslept, I
should be taking my creatine."
>> Yeah. And so, as an underslept dad,
you'll get there soon enough. Um, I take
creatine every morning. It is literally
the first thing I I drink.
>> It's hard for um I've noticed just in my
friendship group when I've talked about
creatine, it's sometimes hard to
convince women to take creatine because
there's a sort of prevailing stereotype
that it makes you large.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I wish um cuz then I'd be
jacked. No, no, it doesn't. In fact, I
think you could make the case that a
woman relevant to the cognitive aspects
of it should be focused on it more than
men. So, there are few chronic diseases
that women suffer from more than men and
Alzheimer's disease is one of them. So,
this is a disease that will affect women
almost double or even triple the rate of
it affecting men. In so far as the
latest evidence shows that at higher
doses, creatine helps with cognition, I
think every woman, middle-aged and
beyond, should be taking creatine daily.
And indeed, on the higher end of that
dose, because that's the dose you need
to help your brain.
>> And I read from one particular study, I
think you talked about this on your
YouTube channel, that creatine increases
strength by up to 10% and power output
by up to 15% and reduces muscle damage
by 20 to 40% after intense exercise.
>> Yeah. So creatine both acts as an
energetic source and it changes gene uh
transcription. So there's evidence to
show that creatine in muscle stimulates
what's called myiogenic genes. Myiogenic
genes are those genes that promote
muscle protein synthesis and muscle
growth. So creatine both energizes the
muscle and promotes growth of the
muscle. Now a woman may say, "Well, I
don't want to get big." You can't get
big. The female a female body does not
have the right mix of sex hormones to
get big muscles. All that will happen is
she'll have wonderful healthy strong
muscles. She does. No woman ever needs
to be worried about getting too big in
muscles. It doesn't happen.
>> Why do vegetarians and vegans need to
pay more attention to creatine?
>> Right. That is Yeah. So creatine is one
of the many things, if you'll pardon me
for saying it, that a vegan would need
to pay attention to. Um so creatine is a
molecule that you can eat. So, if
someone's getting a lot of red meat, you
could make the case that they don't need
to supplement, that they're getting more
than enough. But if you're not eating
red meat, you may not be getting enough.
And I'd say you probably aren't. And
there's reason to get it
>> and
>> to supplement.
>> Does creatine have an impact on blood
sugar levels?
>> No.
>> Blood sugar spikes at all?
>> I would say if someone ever notices, if
they're taking a scoop of creatine and
they see, then it's probably because you
have some maltodextrin in your creatine
powder. Do you know I I had my um blood
levels done a couple of weeks ago and
the doctor said to me that I should be
careful because they're seeing high
levels of creatine in my kidney.
>> Okay. Yes. So what they would have said
is they would have seen high levels of
creatinine.
>> That was it.
>> Yeah. But that's important for people to
know because that's one of the
long-standing attacks against creatine
has been a high level of creatinine.
>> That was it.
>> So creatinine is the metabolite of
creatine. So when creatine has lived its
life and served its purpose, it gets
converted into a molecule called
creatinine which is actively secreted
from the kidneys. Now it's a waste
product and the kidneys happily dump it
out. Now in an average person, if
someone has if you came in and you did a
urine test and we found your creatine
your creatinine levels were really
really high, we would worry, hey, is
this a sign of kidney damage? Are your
kidneys allowing too much to get
filtered? And and it might be a sign of
that. However, if a person's taking
creatine, it is absolutely guaranteed
that they're going to have more
creatinine coming out, and that's just
because they're metabolizing more of the
creatine. There's no reason to be
worried about it.
>> You talked about a 5-year study that
found zero kidney changes in athletes
taking up to 20 gram of
>> which is significant
>> creatine a day.
>> Yeah. There's no evidence. I'm unaware
of any study that has shown kidney
damage on creatine supplementation. It
is what we call in science an artifact
where you see a little hint of a problem
and assume it's it's actually causing a
problem when it's actually just a
manifestation of just what you're doing.
>> Ben, I'm going to ask you to close your
eyes.
>> I'm ready.
>> Okay. And I'm going to ask you to embody
what I'm about to say. Okay.
>> So, suddenly now you are a let's say
35year-old
man and your name is Dave and you have
one kid. You have a little bit of extra
fat around your midsection that you're
trying to lose. You've been listening to
this podcast for a while. You've heard
lots of things. You haven't managed to
make huge amount of progress. Sometimes
you try and then you bounce right back
>> and you're you're kind of at your wit's
end. You really really want 2026 to be
the year that you finally prove to
yourself, your family, for the sake of
your kids and inspiring them to live a
happy, healthier future. That you can
make a change and you can become the
strong, healthy, sexy
>> dad that your family wants you to be and
that you want to be. You want to finally
prove it to yourself after all these
years of struggling, trying, failing.
What is what is it that that guy or that
woman needs to hear to close out this
conversation today, Ben?
>> Yeah.
Um, I appreciate you mentioning the the
the kid. I think you need to have a
reason
because making change is hard. You have
to have a reason that is that is
motivating you to do it. That goes
beyond yourself. That's I should add
that that you'd mentioned a handful of
internal motivations. You want to feel
better. you want to look better. Those
are all valid, but sometimes it's not
enough. Have an external reason. And
when you're a parent, you have a reason.
You have a child. You're living for your
child. So, have a reason for doing what
you're doing that goes beyond your own
motivations and that touches someone
else's life. And then two,
you need to find a way to control your
cravings. I think the more I look at the
debates around obesity and weight loss,
um, which is so central to looking and
feeling better, the more I think you
have to learn to control what you're
addicted to. And so I would say start
with the simplest habit and and change
it. So, if this is if if Dave, the
35-year-old dad of one, if he finds that
he is starting to drink alcohol in the
evening and then he's doing other things
too that he doesn't like, stop doing
that. Um, and recruit outside help. So,
start with one habit you know you should
change and change it. And then that can
when it comes to changing diet, which is
among the hardest things to do for many
people,
I would say eat a big lunch.
Some people don't want to make small
changes because they don't feel
consequential enough. It doesn't feel
like it matters.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, and this is one of the things
again I've learned from interviewing so
many people is that
>> all of these habits are like at some
level interconnected.
>> And actually when you change one, you
influence another.
>> I totally agree.
>> And actually huge change in life starts
with small steps.
And so cutting out the alcohol for
example, that's going to have knock-on
effects in other areas of life, right?
Even like sleep or
>> he will sleep much better. Yes. So
multiple studies show that with cutting
people have a have a mistaken view of
alcohol when it comes to sleep where
they they fall asleep faster but then
they sleep worse throughout the rest of
the night. So there's
>> which then means what?
>> Yeah. So that men So then you wake up
the next morning and you're lethargic,
you're tired, your cortisol will be
higher, you will be more insulin
resistant. So, higher insulin levels
throughout the day,
>> which means you're going to have
cravings,
>> which means you'll have cravings. And
every calorie you consume, you're going
to be more likely to store it. So, then
your body is more efficient at getting
fat on any given amount of calories. So,
even even something as simple as
alcohol, which you and I haven't
discussed at all, and and maybe Dave
isn't an alcohol drinker, but many
people are, uh, that is it has this
patina of helping a person's sleep, and
yet it absolutely does not. And sleep is
a massively relevant variable when it
comes to uh metabolic health and weight
loss and just feeling well.
>> What about stress? That's a protagonist
in the story that we haven't talked
about, but I know it dovetales into
ketones and
>> Oh, it sure is. Weight loss.
>> So, in fact, it's a perfect segue
because sleep deprivation, I believe, is
the leading cause of stress. And stress
is one of the three cardinal causes of
what I call fast insulin resistance.
When the body becomes insulin resistant
in like hours, stress is one of them.
and poor sleep is the main cause. And so
in this case, a person could look, let's
say Dave is not sleeping well. There are
actually the problem with stress is that
it's hard to define that they're going
to bed and they're not feeling very
great and they're worried about stuff
and and if I were to tell him, Dave,
reduce your stress.
>> Well, now he's even more stressed
because he doesn't know how to do it.
This is where I think another
opportunity for some smart
supplementation can come in where there
are these adaptogen like molecules in
nature like ashwagandha. So I just tried
an ashwagandha source in the form of a
little gummy, a goalie gummy and it had
enough like a full kind of therapeutic
dose of ashwagandha and it's in the form
of a delicious little gummy you know so
you don't have to take this bitter
tasting powder from an ashwagandha root
you can take a gummy and then you sleep
a little better because it's been shown
in humans to improve sleep latency
improve improve sleep architecture and
it could be one of the mechanisms is
that it's just suppressing your cortisol
response. So if if Dave or anyone is
feeling that that would just be one more
strategy to address your metabolic
health that you would sort of t take the
small steps you can the little wins and
maybe he's saying all right I need to
sleep a little better. I'm going to cut
my alcohol. I'm going to take a little a
couple of these ashwagandha gummies
before I go to bed and not eat before I
go to bed so I don't go to bed
hypoglycemic. You'll start to sleep a
little better. You'll wake up the next
day ready to kind of win the day. Is
there a relationship with ketones and
stress?
>> Yeah, there is in that ketones help. So,
ketones are more and more called an
anxolytic. That's a technical term for
reducing anxiety. It has been shown to
be a direct effect. So, BHB, the main
ketone, acts as a signaling molecule and
will come to the brain and reduce the
stress hormone signaling.
>> What is the most important thing we
didn't talk about that we should have
talked about, Ben?
Um,
>> as it relates to that person who's
looking to make a change once and for
all,
>> one thing I would add, if if we go back
to the middle-aged guy who's just trying
to be the best version of himself, part
of it might be his testosterone levels
and and that is worth getting checked.
So, as much as we focus, you've had in
the past very good conversations about
women's health, including menopause, men
have their own version of it. um albeit
more modest, but we could more
technically call it andropause, the male
version of it. But there is a steady
reduction in testosterone levels. And if
he finds that he is tired and he's
gaining weight, get your testosterone
checked. If it's actually low, lose a
little weight and the testosterone will
boost. But if you need help, there are
supplements that can even help with
testosterone production that go that you
could use before full-on testosterone
replacement therapy. Um, but ice bath,
an ice bath, I know guys who've doubled
their testosterone levels by doing ice
immersion, cold plunge, and then a
workout after their cold plunge. That's
a wicked awesome combination.
>> So, there are a couple of tests that
we've mentioned today. So, I just want
to summarize some of those tests. Can
people check their insulin levels at
home?
>> No.
>> Not not really. There are some tests
that have been marketed for at home use,
but they're quite cumbersome, and I
would say they're not really ready for
mainstream yet. Okay. So, they have to
go to a doctor and get their test. You
do.
>> And then the testosterone, you can't
check that at home either. No. I guess
you could could you get sent something
in the post?
>> You can. Yeah. So, there's companies in
the US, uh, Blok and Joy, for example,
there's other services you can use where
you go online, sign up, and they send
you either a phabotamist or a little
thing nowadays that you just snap onto
your arm, press a little button, and
it'll fill the tube with blood, and you
just ship it back.
>> Are there any tests that you recommend
my audience get done?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I would say I am an enormous
advocate of measuring insulin. If I
could change any policy within the
United States and and worldwide, it
would be that as much as every blood
test you and I will go into a blood test
every time they'll measure our glucose
and our lipids like cholesterol and
triglycerides, they'll never measure
insulin. If I could have one change in
the US and the UK and everywhere else,
I'd say add insulin to that panel
because once we get insulin, we can
measure the fasted level and a person
wants to see it at around 7 microunits
per mill or less. That's a really really
good sign. So you look at your insulin
alone, but then with insulin and
glucose, you can do something called the
hom
ha the hom score and that's a really
good score of where you fall on the
insulin resistance spectrum. And do you
recommend that people try and wear a
continuous glucose monitor, which is a
device that costs $ 20, $30, you can get
it on everywhere online that stays on
your arm for 14 days and it it monitors
your glucose levels, say your blood
sugar levels. Do you recommend people do
that?
>> I do. I I think that the CGM a CGM is
one of the best ways for a person to
make their own changes. So, if you put a
CGM on your body, you're able to look at
your phone and see what's happening in
your blood.
>> A CGM being a continuous glucose
monitor.
>> A continuous glucose monitor. you're
getting a continuous measurement of your
glucose levels. I have seen more people
make changes of their own valition when
they just are wearing a CGM and they
don't need someone to be nagging them.
You know, you're you have that internal
motivation because you see what's
happening in your own body.
>> For anyone that's never tried it, I
highly recommend it. You I'll link a CGM
below in the comment section. Um I don't
have an affiliation to any CGMs, but
when you eat something within minutes,
usually you can see on your phone your
blood sugar levels rising. And it's for
me it was a really important and
informative 14 days with the CGM on my
arm because it I got to try things that
I have every single day and understand
my blood sugar relationship with those
things. So I got to try tomato ketchup
and then I got to try a Coke Zero and
then I don't know cheese and bananas and
fruit and I got to see within minutes
how much blood glucose was in my blood
and and that informed going forward for
the next couple of years the decisions
that I made in my life.
>> Yeah. and people who the nice thing
about it is you can stack it with other
technologies like let's say you're
wearing a Whoop.
>> Yeah.
>> AD.
>> One of the cool things with the CGM is
the ability to stack it with other
wearables. Well, where let's say that a
person notices that they with wearing a
Whoop that their HRV is suggesting that
they're stressed. And then you look at
that at the same time as your CGM. You
may find that what's causing you to feel
stressed could be your hypoglycemic
spike. And you wouldn't have known that
if it weren't for the CGM. So, I think
there's a lot of utility in stacking
some of these wearables. Someday they're
all going to be in one. Yeah.
>> Um, and they'll crack the code of doing
that. But, I think it really does lend
insight. I made one of the biggest
changes to my sleep by wearing a CGM
where I would sleep terribly. I'd be
monitoring my stress and find that, wow,
every time I sleep really poorly, my
blood glucose, I'd spike my blood
glucose in the evening. I'm going to try
cutting that out. And sure enough, I it
was the single greatest change of my
sleep habits.
>> Ben, we have a closing tradition on this
podcast that the last guest leaves a
question for the next guest, not knowing
who they're leaving it for. The question
left for you is, if you could have
anything in the world for the rest of
your life, what would it be and why?
And you can't say your family.
>> Ah, okay. I was going to ask for that
clarification. Okay. If I could have any
one thing, an item that's not a person,
um I would choose to have my uh my
scriptures,
these holy scriptures, um that I I read
every day. I believe a lot of my
happiness in life has come from my uh my
religious conviction and my belief in a
higher power and my faith in God. As a
scientist, it seems like too many people
want to describe faith as a negative
thing. But everything we do is based on
faith. Every action we take is a is a
faith in a hope that the consequence
will be one we want. And so for me, it
would be my scriptures. Just my way of
meditating and pondering my position in
the greater universe and my connection
with what I believe to be a God, a
loving heavenly father who cares about
me and that I can go to when I feel like
I need help. that goes beyond what I can
do with my own hands.
>> What do you think this is all about?
This life, what do you think the point
of this all of this is?
>> Oh, that's a big question. Um, I believe
it is to show our heavenly father that
we are capable of more that I have very
much a very clear um worldview that we
have a loving heavenly father that we
existed in a premortal state and that
our bodies this mortal experience is an
experience for us. We've been given this
much power. These bodies give us some
power. We have power over life. We have
power over death and all the temptations
that can come from addictions and habits
that are unique to this mortal
tabernacle. I think we've been given a
period of time to show that we can wield
power and control ourselves.
just assuming my my my religious view is
very much that just like my as a as a
father my great hope is that my children
will grow up to be wonderful mothers and
fathers that I want them to be able to
pattern their lives after what they see
in my wife and me. I believe that we
have a heavenly father and a heavenly
mother actually that the we have these
divine parents who want nothing more
than for their children to grow up and
be like them. And I think this is just
like my children will have to leave the
home. If I coddled them and protected
them and only let them stay in my home,
they'd never learn anything. They'd
never grow up because mom and dad are
doing everything. This I think mortal
life is our divine parents opportunity
to show to to help us grow up and then
the time will come for us to pass on and
we will come back to them. Hopefully
showing that we are ready to continue to
learn and progress and be more like
them.
>> To what end? For what reason?
>> To mimic what our heavenly parents have
been able to do where they they have
been able to create a world and populate
it with their spirit children. I want to
do that too. I you and I before we
started recording I joked about how much
I miss babies. I desperately and I do.
It is an ache in my soul that my
children are not little cuddly babies
anymore. Now they're darling children
nevertheless. But I miss babies. And to
me, heaven is my wife and I whom I love
having a family that never ends. and and
that we're able to
give life to this countless number of
future children. Um that someday we'll
be born on a world just like us. That's
a pretty cosmic grand view. But to me,
the purpose of life is to show Heavenly
Father that we are worthy of more and
not just end into a nihilistic blackness
when we die.
>> Thank you. We're done.
>> My pleasure.
If there's anything we need, it is
connection. Especially in the world
we're living in today. And that is
exactly why we created these
conversation cards. Because on this
show, when I sit here with my guest and
have those deep, intimate conversations,
this remarkable thing happens time and
time again. We feel deeply connected to
each other. At the end of every episode,
the guest I'm interviewing leaves a
question for the next guest, and we've
turned them into these conversation
cards. And we've added these twist cards
to make your conversations even more
interesting. And there are so many more
twists along the way with the
conversation cards. This is the brand
new edition. And for the first time
ever, I've added to the pack this gold
card, which is an exclusive question
from me. But I'm only putting the gold
cards in the first run of conversation
cards. So get yours now before the
limited edition gold cards are all gone.
Head to the link in the description
below.
Heat. Heat. N.
I see.